  
Search for:
Doubtful News

Doubtful News

Main menu

Skip to content

  • About Doubtful News
  • Beyond Doubtful sources
  • Contact Us
  • Privacy policy
  • Book Recommendations
  • Media Guide to Skepticism
  • Submit a story

Sub menu

Real-deal “boy next door” medium? Or Hollywood hype?

January 20, 2016 • 14 Comments

Hollywood-Medium_Tyler_Henry-221x300

Back in July, I caught wind of yet another psychic medium “reality” show in
development. This one seems tailor-made for Hollywood. Or, should I say…
“tyler-made”? The eight-episode hour-long series “follows 19-year-old
“celebrity medium” Tyler Henry, as he balances his unique abilities with trying
to be a regular teenager.” He’s 20 now. Still, wouldn’t you think…

Continue →

Zak’s Demon House docu gets delayed (UPDATE: House destroyed)

January 18, 2016 • 5 Comments

zak_bagans_stupid

Nearly two years ago, Zak Bagans, flashy ghost investigator from TV Ghost
Adventures, bought the “demon” house in Indiana days after it made sensational
headlines in the tabloids and even in more reputable news outlets. The story of
Ammons family who lived in the house was that of a woman and her three children
who claimed they…

Continue →

Mass squid mortality in Chile leaves lingering stench

January 15, 2016 • 6 Comments

squid

Mystery mongering sites are saying that mass deaths of animals are a sign of
the apocalypse. But animal mass deaths happen naturally (or sort of naturally,
sometimes our carelessness helps it along). In this case, last week in Chile,
there is a reasonable explanations, but end of the earth ISN’T it. The beaching
of the…

Continue →

Inaugural cryptozoology conference held – New society to be formed

January 11, 2016 • 13 Comments

636x460design_01

Science writer and author, Matt Bille (Shadows of Existence and Rumors of
Existence) attended the inaugural International Cryptozoology Museum Conference
in St. Augustine, Florida last week and reported on the proceedings. You can
read his entire review of the 3-day event here but I’ll highlight some of the
news and views that came out of…

Continue →

Thanks to Kickstarter, those who promote silly hats got a pile of free money

January 11, 2016 • 29 Comments

TinFoilHatAreaOnly

A hat that claims to shield your head from electromagnetic fields has become a
successfully funded project on Kickstarter this past week. The people behind
the campaign (whomever they are) took advantage of people’s ignorance and
gullibility (and possibly paranoia) about the supposed harmful effects of
electromagnetic fields. These beanies are basically just a fancy version…

Continue →

Nothing interesting happens in Canberra, eh? UFO hoax revealed (and it’s deemed
‘not interesting’)

January 10, 2016 • 9 Comments

orb

There was really no story to cover when, on January 4, 2015, several news
outlets reported on a video on YouTube, promoted on Reddit, that was getting
attention. You see, UFO/portal/wormhole videos are decidedly uninteresting (or
should be) because they can pretty easily be faked and ARE regularly faked. All
videos and photos (of ghosts, Bigfoot, lake…

Continue →

What was the cause of this deformity in an Idaho mountain lion? (UPDATED)

January 9, 2016 • 5 Comments

outdoorhub-photos-idaho-hunter-shoots-mountain-lion-with-bizarre-deformity-2016-01-08_14-39-49-880x561

Several people have alerted us to this story about a very strange deformity
found in a young mountain lion killed in Idaho. We posted it 2 days ago on our
Twitter and Facebook feeds but I thought I’d gather some of the additional
information here and update it if more comes to light. The primary…

Continue →

Preaching to the Choir: Social media sharing in “echo chambers” reinforces
belief

January 8, 2016 • 5 Comments

We may eschew sensationalism and ads but are not above emotional tugs and
trendy memes. :-)

Doubtful News would be useless if people weren’t interested in finding out what
might or might not be true and correct. This site appeals to people who are
willing to listen to a narrative framed in that way. But, SURPRISE (not), most
people consult the internet guided by beliefs they hold dear – whether those
tend towards…

Continue →

Proof Nessie is an eel? Not exactly, but not a bad guess.

January 7, 2016 • 12 Comments

Can't make out much of anything in the video.

The Scotsman newspaper regularly posts stories on its favorite lake monster
just so she stays in people’s minds and brings tourists to the shores of Loch
Ness. It’s unclear why this story of a video from 2007 is now making news again
but it is, as are all Nessie claims, less than impressive and certainly…

Continue →

Swords and sophistry: Questionable archaeology to the hilt (UPDATE: Not a Roman
sword)

January 4, 2016 • 28 Comments

swordsman

Welcome to 2016! I predict that this year we will continue to see the
popularity of pseudo archaeology – a cracked spinoff of a science-based field
that studies human long-past history. Yes, more out-of-place artifacts, ancient
alien astronauts, Atlantis, etc. Today, we bring you the continuing saga of
SwordGate and a heretic historian who is attempting to prove…

Continue →

Giant squid reveals itself to us, still no Bigfoot

December 30, 2015 • 16 Comments

The torpedo-shaped creature is revealed up close and in vivid color.

Last week, we were treated to the clearest video of what was claimed to be a
giant squid near the surface from central Japan’s Toyama Bay. A brave diver
jumped in to get up close and personal with the rarely seen 12 foot long
animal. The video was undoubtedly real but some question remained. Deep Sea…

Continue →

Train in vain: No sign of Nazi gold train

December 16, 2015 • 16 Comments

gold-train-640x444

A discouraging update on the Nazi gold train said to be located in Poland. Back
in August, even the culture minister was hopeful it was real. Alas, there were
many reasons to be very skeptical as we noted back then. It turns out, no
evidence that it is real has been forthcoming. A team of…

Continue →

Are people really this dumb to be scared of solar panels? (Update)

December 14, 2015 • 40 Comments

sunshine

So, the top story shared on my social media today is a point-and-LOL
chortle-fest at a North Carolina town who has rejected a solar panel farm
project. There are DOZENS of stories that make fun of the people who provided
public comment against the rezoning decision in Woodland, NC because of their
apparent ignorance of…

Continue →

False flag rhetoric vomited across the ‘net by the usual buffoons

December 3, 2015

false flag

The public response to the shooting in San Bernardino, California
yesterday immediately included the ridiculous, baseless and perfidious comments
by clowns like Alex Jones of InfoWars.com and the bottom-of-the-barrel
sludgy-bits websites NaturalNews.com and Beforeitsnews.com. As with every real
life mass shooting, crushing cognitive bias requires the labeling of these
events “false flags” in order to demonize the government instead of…

Continue →

Inquest in UK teen suicide over wi-fi allergy claim

December 2, 2015 • 17 Comments

wifi

Jenny, aged 15, committed suicide last summer. She had a history of health
issues. Her mother attributed her problems to electromagnetic hypersensitivity.
Mother claims wifi allergy killed her daughter and accuses school of failing to
safeguard children – Telegraph Mrs Fry told Oxfordshire Coroners’ Court that
Jenny had started showing signs of EHS in November…

Continue →

On newsstands now… paranormal pandering from previously reputable sources

November 30, 2015 • 21 Comments

BsuaJ5K

National Geographic has a special issue out featuring “Strange But True:
Secrets of the Supernatural Revealed”: Strange But True: Secrets of the
Supernatural Revealed features the most wildly popular, incredibly weird, and
totally true stories that only National Geographic could discover. Ripped from
the headlines of National Geographic Daily News, these often weird, sometimes
miraculous…

Continue →

It’s a rockier road than usual in the Santa Clarita valley

November 27, 2015 • 5 Comments

From KTLA 5 News.

Vasquez Canyon Road in Santa Clarita, California has undergone a dramatic
change in just a few hours. The 3-km stretch between Lost Creek Road and
Vasquez Way, Santa Clarita Valley’s few east-west connectors, is closed until
further notice. But it is providing a learning experience for geology students.
There was no earthquake, rain or other…

Continue →

YouTube-Google lends a welcome hand to UFO debunkers

November 24, 2015 • 13 Comments

UFOcaughtontape

It’s happened to lots of websites: criticism (or just a mention) of a product
or a person results in an overreaction with an inappropriate claim of copyright
infringement. How can you soundly explain the reasoning for why you think a
certain photo is a bear, not a Bigfoot or that a UFO video is a hoax unless…

Continue →

L’Acquital: Legal battle over for six Italian earthquake scientists

November 21, 2015 • 9 Comments

Laquila

In October of 2012, six Italian scientists and a government official were
convicted of manslaughter for failing to give warning for the L’Aquila
earthquake of 2009 that killed over 300 people. The verdict was terribly
misguided and was overturned in November of last year. The judge justified his
decision by saying they failed in characterizing the…

Continue →

Busted: “Samurai” ghost boots

November 19, 2015 • 13 Comments

Photo: Martin Springall

Back in April 2015, we posted two photos going around in tabloid press of
“ghosts”. Or apparent ghosts, I should say. Both could easily have had prosaic
explanations. One of the photos was of a “mysterious” pair of boots behind a
2014 picture of a girl on a scenic beach bluff in Japan. ‘Samurai Ghost’:…

Continue →

Shrimpzilla photo: Don’t grab the cocktail sauce yet

November 18, 2015 • 25 Comments

12112042_966558186715874_6232280276048959770_n

This was passed to me via @ShadowWolf_32 on Twitter. It’s going around Facebook
as from Florida. It’s OBVIOUSLY DOUBTFUL but several clues point to it as
outright FAKE. Why I say it’s fake: It’s on Facebook. There is no other
corroboration to show it’s a real catch. If it was, this would be all over the…

Continue →

Page 1 of 369
1 2 3 … 369 >>
Science- and evidence-based discussion on strange and questionable claims in
the media with a punch of critical thinking.
Search for:
My Tweets

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of
new posts by email.

Join 943 other subscribers

Email Address

[Subscribe]

Categories

Categories[Select Category         ]
Support us with a few bucks.
[tipjar-e13] *
Your Purchases Help!

Amazon.com

Facebook

    Facebook

Archives

Archives [Select Month         ]
Hollywood-Medium_Tyler_Henry-221x300

Real-deal “boy next door” medium? Or Hollywood hype?

zak_bagans_stupid

Zak’s Demon House docu gets delayed (UPDATE: House destroyed)

squid

Mass squid mortality in Chile leaves lingering stench

636x460design_01

Inaugural cryptozoology conference held – New society to be formed

TinFoilHatAreaOnly

Thanks to Kickstarter, those who promote silly hats got a pile of free money

orb

Nothing interesting happens in Canberra, eh? UFO hoax revealed (and it’s deemed
‘not interesting’)

Copyright © 2015 Lithospherica, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Magazine Premium
created by c.bavota.

