




(Sorry, your browser does not support inline frames.)

WEBLOG

January 16th, 2016 (Permalink)

Debate Watch

  • (1/20/2016)

        "Demography has more to do with crime increasing or decreasing than any
        one policy," said Michael Maltz, an emeritus professor of criminal
        justice at the University of Illinois at Chicago. "A politician is
        always looking to embellish his own record to the best that he can. If
        there's something that gets better during his administration he'll take
        credit for it."
        Source: John Fritze & Doug Donovan, "Fact check: O'Malley lays claim to
        an ambitious record in Md.", The Baltimore Sun, 4/18/2015

    I don't want to pick on former Mayor of Baltimore and ex-Governor of
    Maryland Martin O'Malley, who at this point is a very long shot to get the
    Democratic nomination for President. Not only that, but O'Malley was
    reduced to pathetically begging for time from the moderators of the most
    recent Democratic debate, who seemed more interested in front-runners
    Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders. However, a claim that O'Malley made in
    the debate illustrates a common logical problem in political rhetoric.
    Here's his answer to a question posed by moderator Lester Holt about crime
    in Baltimore: "I drove our incarceration rate down to 20-year lows, and
    drove violent crime down to 30-year lows…."

    It's clear from O'Malley's choice of words that he is claiming to have
    through his policies or actions brought about―"I drove down"―the low
    incarceration rate and lower level of violent crime in Baltimore. However,
    violent crime was decreasing nationwide during the time period that
    O'Malley was mayor, and surely he could not plausibly claim that his
    policies caused a national decline in violence. Thus, the question is
    raised: how much, if any, of the decline in violent crime in Baltimore was
    the result of O'Malley's policies, and how much of it was simply the city's
    share in the national decline?

    This is much the same logical mistake as in the previous entry on the
    Republican debate, though Bush claimed that the reduction in gun violence
    in Florida was due to specific policies, whereas O'Malley was not specific
    about what led to the lower crime rate in Baltimore though he claimed
    credit for whatever it was. In general, when politicians, such as Mayors,
    Governors, or Presidents, run for office they take credit for any good
    thing that happened during their term of office, while denying blame for
    the bad things. However, officeholders both benefit and suffer at the hands
    of events that are beyond their control.

    O'Malley is probably no worse about making such dubious causal claims than
    any other politician running for office, but we need to be skeptical when
    we hear them. It is much harder than most people realize to identify the
    causes of crime, or to affect its rate with legal or police policies. So,
    when a politician claims to have lowered crime, or one blames an opponent
    for higher crime rates, we need to ask some critical questions: What was
    happening to the crime rate nationwide during the relevant period? How did
    the crime rate change in similar cities or states?

    Source: "Democratic debate transcript: Clinton, Sanders, O'Malley in South
    Carolina", CBS News, 1/18/2016
  • The sixth Republican Presidential debate was just held―that's right, sixth!
    I missed a couple because there just wasn't anything new or interesting in
    them. In this most recent one, moderator Maria Bartiromo asked Florida
    ex-Governor Jeb Bush the following:

        Bartiromo: … Governor Bush, gun rights… What is the harm in tightening
        standards for not only who buys guns, but those who sell them?

        Bush: …I think we need to focus on what the bigger issue is. It isn't
        law-abiding gun owners. Look, …we…have a reduction in gun violence
        because in Florida, if you commit a crime with a gun, you're going
        away. You're going away for a long, long while. And that's what we
        should focus on is the violence in our communities. …
        Source: Team Fix, "6th Republican debate transcript, annotated: Who
        said what and what it meant", The Washington Post, 1/14/2016

    Bush is here claiming that the fact that "you're going away"―that is, you
    will go to prison "for a long, long while"―if you use a gun to commit a
    crime in Florida caused the reduction in gun violence in the state. The
    word "because" signals that this is a causal claim. However, how do we know
    that the imprisonment policy is responsible for causing the drop in gun
    violence? Bush is not explicit about when this policy was adopted, but
    presumably it was adopted before and was in place during at least part of
    the reduction; otherwise, it would be clear that the policy could not be
    responsible for the reduction.

    The Washington Post's Fact Checker has a helpful annotation in its
    transcript of the debate to this part of Bush's answer―see the Source,
    above. Here's the relevant part:

        Some types of gun violence decreased while Bush was governor of
        Florida, but not all. … Overall crime decreased while Bush was governor
        of Florida from 1999 to 2007. The downward trend continued after he
        left office, and is consistent with crime rates overall in the country.
        This is not an exhaustive look at gun violence in Florida, but we
        crunched the numbers in three key categories of gun violence to see how
        they fared between 1999 and 2006…. Murders by firearm were at three per
        100,000 in 1999, then four per 100,000 in 2006. But it increased to 4.4
        per 100,000 in 2007…. Aggravated assaults with firearms and gun
        robberies went down while Bush was in office….

    It appears that the career of gun violence in Florida during Bush's term
    was checkered, with some types going up and other types declining. However,
    if we assume that there was an overall decline in violence with guns, is it
    possible that Florida's "tough" gun crime policies have caused or at least
    contributed to said reduction? Yes, it's even plausible. But as the Fact
    Checker points out, the downward trend in Florida was part of a larger
    national reduction in crime. For this reason, it's impossible to know how
    much if anything "tough" sentencing policies may have had to do with this
    reduction. Plausibility is not enough: a causal conclusion is not warranted
    by Bush's evidence.

    Fallacy: Non Causa Pro Causa

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

January 9th, 2016 (Permalink)

…And a New Taxonomy

The Fallacy Files now has a new, improved Taxonomy of Logical Fallacies. To see
the new Taxonomy, you can simply click on the link on the Main Menu to your
left. The old, legacy Taxonomy is still available from the "How to Use the
Taxonomy" page. As explained on that page, the old Taxonomy was almost
impossible to update, and is out of date as a result. The new version is far
from perfect, but will be easy to update. As usual, if you find any broken or
missing links, or other problems with the page, please let me know.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

January 6th, 2016 (Permalink)

A New Book for a New Year

I just got my hands on a copy of psychologist Rob Brotherton's new book
Suspicious Minds: Why We Believe Conspiracy Theories. I'm a bit put off by that
subtitle since I, for one, don't believe conspiracy theories. However, as with
newspaper and magazine titles, book titles and subtitles are often imposed upon
writers by their editors and publishers. A New York Times review makes the same
claim as the subtitle:

    It turns out we are all conspiracy theorists. Brotherton attacks the
    stereotype, which he says was popularized by the historian Richard
    Hofstadter in his influential essay  The Paranoid Style in American
    Politics,  of conspiracy theorists as a small band of tinfoil-adorned
    loonies―the paranoid fringe. Brotherton s main argument is that we all
    possess a conspiracy mind-set to some extent, because it is hard-wired into
    our brains.  Suspicious Minds  details the various psychological  quirks
    and shortcuts  that make us susceptible to conspiracy theories.
    Source: Adrian Chen, " Suspicious Minds,  by Rob Brotherton", The New York
    Times, 12/31/2015

I'm willing to accept that "we all possess a conspiracy mind-set to some
extent" because "various psychological 'quirks and shortcuts'…make us
susceptible to conspiracy theories", but it just doesn't follow that "we are
all conspiracy theorists". That's just factually wrong. It's like claiming that
everyone has sexual desires and attractions of the sort that lead to people
cheating on their spouses or lovers―which is no doubt true―therefore everyone
cheats on their spouse or lover―which is obviously false. We may all be
potential cheaters but we are thankfully not all actual ones.

I hope the book doesn't live up to its misleading subtitle. I won't promise
anything, but I may review it later this year.

Resource: Rob Brotherton, et al., The Psychology of Conspiracy Theories. The
author's website.
                              Amazon.com Widgets

December 25th, 2015 (Permalink)

A Puzzle for Christmas

Klaus has a problem: an old college friend of his has invited him to visit on
Christmas day, and Klaus has decided to bring presents for his friend's
children. Unfortunately, he hasn't seen his friend since the childless days of
college, and has never met the children before. Moreover, he has a notoriously
faulty memory for other people's children. He does remember his friend
announcing the birth of a new child twice; furthermore, he recalls the friend
using the masculine pronoun in reference to one of the two, but not which one.
However, that's all that he can remember for sure: his friend has two children
and at least one is a boy. What kind of presents should he buy?

Obviously, he should buy one present for a boy, but what about the other one?
Should he purchase a present that a girl might like or another one for a boy?
Of course, he could always call his friend and ask, but that would be
embarrassing: how could he have forgotten such vitally important information?
He could buy three presents, two for boys and one for a girl, but how would he
manage to explain away the third present? It would appear that he thought his
friend had three children, which would be even more embarrassing! Another
possibility was to buy a present that would be suitable for either sex, but
Klaus simply couldn't think of a toy that would work. It was hard enough
figuring out what a modern boy or girl would like!

Finally, Klaus decided that he simply must take his chances and buy a single
present for a boy or a girl based on the odds. But was it an even chance that
his friend had an additional boy or a girl? If so, then he might as well just
flip a coin. What should Klaus do? Should he buy a present for a boy or for a
girl? When you think that you know the answer, click on "Solution", below.

Solution
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

December 15th, 2015 (Permalink)

At Risk of Pinocchios

The Washington Post's fact-checker Glenn Kessler put a list out yesterday of
"the biggest Pinocchios of 2015", that is, the "biggest" errors that failed a
fact-check in the past year. I gather that what made the list were those errors
that received four "Pinocchios", which is the highest―or lowest, depending on
how you look at it―rating in the fact-checker's rating system. At the end of
the list is a "special award" for "bushels of bogus sex trafficking
statistics", among which is one from May concerning the claim that 300,000
American children are "at risk" of sexual exploitation.

I missed the May article, which is unfortunate since it concerns a topic I had
dealt with last year―see the Resource, below. Before looking at this specific
issue, there's a general problem with the notion of "at risk of X", whatever X
is. Even if X is a precisely defined concept, "at risk of X" will probably not
be. So, why not just count cases of X rather than trying to count the less
precise concept of "at risk of X"? One obvious reason is that the latter is
likely to be a larger class, and the resulting number of cases greater. For
this reason, activists who wish to use large numbers to galvanize support for
anti-X activities will gravitate towards using the broader concept.

Furthermore, in order to count cases, we need a precise definition of what it
is to be at risk of X, but that will be defined by those doing the counting.
Also, the definition of a vague concept such as "at risk of X" is more open to
manipulation than that of a more precise concept such as X itself. Assuming
that the definition doesn't provide a large enough number to scare up anti-X
support, it can always be broadened.

For these reasons, when you see the concept of "at risk for X", whatever X
happens to be, you should be on your guard. Here are some critical questions
that should be asked about the use of this concept:

  • Why not count actual cases of X rather than those supposedly at risk of it?
  • Who is it that defines "at risk for X"?
  • Do the definers have a motive for exaggerating the riskiness of X?
  • What, exactly, is the definition of "at risk of X"?
  • Is it easy to find the definition, or is it concealed?
  • Does the definition seem reasonable, or are there signs that it has been
    made broad in order to inflate the numbers?

If you can't answer these questions at all or with reassuring answers, then you
probably shouldn't rely upon the number of "at risk for X". Now, let's turn to
the specific issue of "at risk of sexual exploitation" and fact-check the
fact-checker.

The claim that Kessler fact-checked is that 300,000 American children are at
risk of commercial sexual exploitation. Here's what Kessler says about the
provenance of this figure:

    …[T]he 300,000 figure comes from a 2001 report written by Richard J. Estes
    and Neil Weiner of the University of Pennsylvania. … The report suggested
    that about 326,000 children were  at risk for commercial sexual
    exploitation"….

The second claim is correct, but the first is at least dubious, as I pointed
out in my previous entry on this issue. If the Estes and Weiner (E&W) estimate
is the source of the number, why would it be rounded down to 300,000? The last
thing that politicians who are advocating legislation against commercial sexual
exploitation would want to do is minimize the number of those at risk.

My own research indicated that the estimate came from a previous report from
the mid-'90s, which means that it's almost twenty years old, and E&W
specifically rejected all previous estimates as unreliable. However, the E&W
report may be the proximate source for the 100,000-300,000 estimate, since it
does mention it if only to reject it. It's mentioned early (p. 4) in a long
report―over 200 pages―so it's possible that a lazy researcher looking for
numbers to cite came across it and didn't notice or care that it was not the
estimate of the report itself, but a previous one rejected by the report.
Pinocchio

I give Kessler one Pinocchio.

Sources:

  • Glenn Kessler, "The biggest Pinocchios of 2015", The Washington Post, 14/14
    /2015
  • Glenn Kessler, "The bogus claim that 300,000 U.S. children are  at risk  of
    sexual exploitation", The Washington Post, 5/28/2015

Resource: One "myth" that's not quite dead yet, 9/5/2014
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

December 9th, 2015 (Permalink)

Dueling Headlines, Dueling Polls

Ted Cruz takes lead from Donald Trump in new Iowa poll

Trump holds 13-point lead in CNN s Iowa poll

Can both of these polls be right? Trump's 13 percentage point lead over Cruz in
the CNN/ORC poll is highly significant, so you can't explain this away as
simply statistical noise.

You might suspect that they were conducted at different times, which would
certainly explain how two polls could differ so much. However, though they were
not conducted during exactly the same time period, the polls did overlap: the
first was conducted by Monmouth University from the 3rd to the 6th of this
month, whereas the second, CNN/ORC poll ended on the same day but started six
days earlier. Could the inclusion of some samples from November 28th to
December 2nd account for such a large difference in results? If public opinion
can change so much so fast then it's unlikely that any poll this far from the
caucuses will be of any use in predicting the results.

How about sampling bias, that is, were the samples different in some relevant
respect? Both polls were aimed at sampling likely voters in the Iowa Republican
caucuses, but according to The Hill's article:

    Monmouth drew its sample from lists of registered voters who voted in at
    least one prior state primary, in a recent general election or registered
    to vote in the past year. CNN drew its sample by asking adults about their
    past participation patterns and intensions.

One problem with polls aimed at sampling likely voters is that every polling
organization has its own definition of "likely voter". As a result, each is
sampling a somewhat different population, which makes it difficult to compare
polls from different pollsters. If the different results are explained by the
different definitions, which definition comes closest to capturing the group of
people who will actually take part in the caucuses? We may have to wait until
after the caucuses are over to find out.

Sources:

  • "Full results: CNN/ORC poll of Iowa Republicans", CNN, 12/7/2015
  • "Iowa: Cruz Takes Caucus Lead", Monmouth University, 12/7/2015
  • Josh Haskell, "Two New Polls Show Ted Cruz, Donald Trump Vie for Lead In
    Iowa", ABC News, 12/7/2015
  • Jonathan D. Salant, "Trump trails in new Iowa GOP poll but another has him
    leading. Here's why", NJ.com, 12/8/2015
  • Maxwell Tani, "Two new Iowa polls showed wildly different results for
    Donald Trump", Business Insider, 12/8/2015

Resource: How to Read a Poll

Update (12/13/2015): A newer poll, conducted for Bloomberg Politics and the Des
Moines Register newspaper, puts Cruz ahead of Trump by ten percentage points,
which is a significant lead. This suggests that the Monmouth poll showing Cruz
in the lead was capturing a real surge in support for Cruz. Of course, this
doesn't explain what happened with the CNN/ORC poll. Perhaps the CNN poll
missed most of the surge, or maybe it's just that one-in-twenty poll that's
wrong by more than its margin of error. In any case, if it's true that Cruz has
risen so much in such a short time, then it appears that the race for support
in Iowa is highly volatile and could change an equal amount in the month and a
half left before the caucuses.

Sources:

  • Jennifer Jacobs, "'Big shakeup' in Iowa Poll: Cruz soars to lead", The Des
    Moines Register, 12/13/2015
  • John McCormick, "Cruz Soars to Front of the Pack in Iowa Poll; Trump
    Support Stays Flat", Bloomberg, 12/12/2015

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

December 4th, 2015 (Permalink)

Headline

400-Year-Old Hearts Had Same Diseases As Hearts Of Today

If they're 400 years old they're doing pretty well.

Previous Entry

Amazon.com Widgets

    If like us you love casino games, we recommend to you this excellent online
    casino guide to play tons of free slots and learn easily all the games'
    rules and strategies.

    Online dissertation services such as MastersThesisWriting may help with
    your thesis or dissertation.

    Buy Country Targeted Followers On Twitter

Advertise in The Fallacy Files

The Fallacy Files does not endorse products or services advertised here. Ads
makes it possible to continue as a free site. You may help keep it free by
supporting its advertisers. Thank you!
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Search The Fallacy Files:

  [                          ]
  ( ) Web (*) www.fallacyfiles.org
 
  [Google Search] 

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Support The Fallacy Files

Donate to The Fallacy Files *
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Email the Fallacist

(C) Copyright 2001-2016: Gary N. Curtis

Permission is granted for non-commercial use and replication of this material
for educational purposes, provided that appropriate notice is included of both
its authorship and copyrighted status.

