[header1]

Sticking up for science. Whose job is it?

There’s been plenty of talk about science communication of late, specifically
who should do it and should they be rewarded for their efforts.

Tweet

The discussion started when two opposing view points were posed regarding
metrics – one suggesting science communication (or #scicomm to the cool kids)
should be considered in official metrics for academics and one strongly
disagreeing.

(There were also some other discussions surrounding those who are already in a
position of privilege dismissing the importance of #scicomm, and these played
out on Twitter).

The perpetual argument for scientists not doing #scicomm could be distilled to
“forcing scientists to do #scicomm distracts them from research and risks
attracting sub-standard researchers to the field”. I disagree with this
assessment, as you’ll see a bit later.

Nevertheless, this is an important discussion because in the world of academic
science, careers are won and lost on “publish or perish”. Grants and promotions
are rewarded based on “metrics” – which essentially constitutes how many papers
you’ve published, how important the journals in which you publish are, and
where in the author list your name falls.

This was once the only way to gain traction up the academic ladder, but times,
they-are-a-changin’, and this includes coming out from behind the paywall of
scientific publishing to talk about your work.

[Screen-Shot-2015-07-25-at-5]

Discoveries Needs Dollars was a hugely successful grass roots campaign,
instigated
by scientists at the WEHI. Photo credit Dr Francis Geronimo

One of the reasons why I think we should be doing #scicomm is because, not
unlike other vocations such as law or medicine, science operates in another
language, one that is foreign to a reasonable person. Its publications are
complex, convoluted and verging on impenetrable, not only because they are
frequently paywalled, but they’re written in jargon and use obscure acronyms.

Evidence suggests that even other researches don’t read their peer’s work, and
even when papers are cited – meaning they are referenced in other scientists’
publications – it has been shown that they have not necessarily been completely
read. Likely the abstract has been, but not the rest of the paper, and
abstracts often misrepresent the findings in the body of the paper.

So here we have a situation where a) no one, sometimes not even other
scientists, understand what scientists are jabbering on about b) even if you
dared attempt to decipher a scientific publication you have to pay a large
publishing company to read it and c) even other scientists CBF reading their
colleagues work.

In my opinion, this is a problem for several reasons.
1) If scientists are receiving public funds to do research, then we should be
required to tell people what we have done with their cash. Beavering away in a
basement lab and pleading “mad scientist” is not acceptable and only serves to
perpetuate myths about scientists.

2 – and this is particularly important – we cannot expect support from the
public if we don’t engage with them.

Consider this with respect to funding. As far as the government is concerned,
scientists as a group are low hanging fruit. We are not strongly union
represented, we are not vocal, and the public does not universally love us. You
don’t see people marching on the streets in our defence when the government
cuts millions from the CSIRO budget. Consider that the current government did
not even appoint a science minister when they came into power, only acquiescing
after pressure from the scientific community and a cabinet reshuffle over 12
months later.

Screen Shot 2015-07-25 at 5.47.08 pm

Dr Mel Thomson reacted to being called a “precious petal” as any good scientist
would – with liquid nitrogen and a hammer!

Indeed, when we do complain about job losses and budget cuts we’re called “
precious petals“.

By contrast, recall the outcry when the government discontinued funding to the
automotive industry in Australia? Eventually they offered assistance packages
in the form of retraining for retrenched workers, – not so for scientists who
lose their jobs as every grant season comes around or when the CSIRO has $110
million cut from its budget.

Who could forget the story of the scientist tipped to win a Nobel prizer who
lost his job from CSIRO so opted to work for free. I’d like to see some
politicians do this…

But there have been times when public support for science has been high and the
results have been very positive. Remember Discoveries Needs Dollars, a
grassroots campaign designed to protest slated cuts the science budget leading
up to the 2011 election?

This was instigated by researchers at the WEHI and mobilised thousands of
scientists from across the country to take to the streets in lab coasts and
placards in an effort to convince the government not to cut research funding.

What made this campaign so compelling was stream of people who stepped up to
talk about how they’d been helped by science based medicine. It was personal –
people could relate to it, it resonated with the public who saw no sense in
cutting research funding when the return on investment is so high. And it was
successful, the budget cuts were reversed.

This was a great case study for the power of #scicomm but that was 2011 and has
the momentum continued? No.

As is their right and responsibility, (most) scientists returned to their
benches and forgot all about it. But they shouldn’t and here’s why.

If we don’t talk about science, participate in discussions in the media, write
blogs and articles, translate the complex into the simple, then other people
will. People who do not understand science, or whose only intent is to
deliberately distort science for their own gain. People like Pete Evans, Bell
Gibson, Jessica Ainscough, Mike Adams, Dr Mercola, Dr Oz, the list goes on. And
compared to the number of people doing a poor job of representing science,
there are only a handful sticking up for it.

This is our fault and our responsibility. And as academic scientists, we should
be rewarded for it. I don’t have the answer for how to best design metrics for
measuring #scicomm output but I absolutely think they should be, and I’m glad
this discussion is taking place. Because if we don’t stick up for science, then
who will?

Tweet

Post script: Follow up reading material on measuring #scicomm output can be
found on Dr Cameron Webb’s blog “Putting a Value on Science Communication“.
Follow Dr Cameron and Dr Mel Thomson on Twitter

Tweet

No Comments / Jul 25.15 / Science communication / by Maggie

Naming and shaming for ALS awareness

Anyone who knows me well (or reads this blog on occasion) will know I have
little tolerance for quacks who claim to have cures or magic potions for
incurable diseases.

Tweet


What’s the harm I hear you say? Well, in the least, ripping people off when
they’re most vulnerable costs them money and is just plain asshatty.

At the worst, people can die, either as a result of the “treatment” or more
commonly because they cease their evidence based therapies for the quackery.

A particular bug bear of mine is people who claim to have “cures” for Motor
Neurone Disease (MND, also known as ALS or Lou Gehrig’s Disease).

I work in ALS research, so I know some stuff about the disease and the (lack of
effective) treatments. And I also know it’s a bastard of a disease. People lose
the ability to walk, to speak, to swallow, to breathe, but all the while their
brain functions normally. So effectively, you’re watching yourself die.
Devastating.

So, with that in mind, I’m going to name and shame a chiropractor who FBorked†
this post about the current viral ALS Awareness Campaign, #
ALSicebucketchallenge.

Screen Shot 2014-08-17 at 3.31.45 pm

I’m not going to be polite about this. This was an arsehole thing to write,
arsehole for several reasons.

1) No, to the best of my knowledge this is not a marketing scam. The challenge
has raised $11.4 million since July 29 for the ALS Association of America.

2) No, in over 90% of cases, we do not know the causes of ALS*

3) No, getting heavy metals and “chemicals” (how the latter differ to minerals,
which he says are good, I’ll never know and neither does Mr Dean apparently)
will not get their “nervous system and organs function(ing) again.”

4) No, chiropractic adjustments will not give them “healing potential”,
whatever that means, or “get the toxicity” out of their bodies.

5) No, ALS is not completely “prevetable” (sic).

#ALSicebucketchallenge has so far been spread around by President Barack Obama,
Bill Gates, Oprah, Ricky Gervais, and others and has resulted in increased
awareness as well as a 50 times increase in donations to the ALS Association of
America, which is a very good thing.

    “According to The ALS Association spokeswoman Carrie Munk, the organization
    has collected $1.35 million from July 29 to Aug. 11. That’s not counting
    donations to chapter offices around the country, Munk said. During the same
    time period last year, donations totalled $22,000.

Tip ‘o the hat to the @roguechiro

——

If you would like to donate to ALS Research in Australia, please consider
donating to our lab here. 100% of donations go to our research, no admin fees
are taken out.

†I can no longer find this post on his FB page. I hope he had the decency to
remove it. Asshat

*We have observed some correlations, for example, my team is working on the
link between a toxin found in blue green algae, called BMAA, and ALS. We
reported a plausible mechanism for this last year, and evidence continues to
build that consuming foods contaminated with BMAA can trigger ALS. But this has
not been unequivocally demonstrated.

 

Tweet

No Comments / Aug 17.14 / alternative medicine, chiropractic, quackery / by
Maggie

“Did I say that? I don’t believe I did..” Meryl Dorey, bald faced lies.

This morning Meryl Dorey, ex-president of the AV-SN, sent an email to her Yahoo
Group (message # 48461) asking her flying monkeys to hit up the editor of the
Courier Mail newspaper. They are currently running a pro-vaccine campaign.

Tweet

I’ve included the email in it’s entirety so you know that I haven’t edited it,
but I want to draw your attention to one sentence in particular (see the
highlighted text)

Screen Shot 2014-04-13 at 8.57.01 pm

“So please resend your letters to the address above. And if you have a healthy,
unvaccinated child, include pictures of them. The same if you have a child who
was injured or killed by vaccines.”

When she disemminated the post via FB however, she removed any reference to
“killed by vaccines”.

Screen Shot 2014-04-13 at 8.59.54 pm

As a result of her Y! email, MD reports that she received a call from a
journalist asking her why she was asking people to send in pictures of dead
children. See below

Screen Shot 2014-04-13 at 9.02.09 pm

Link to post here

MD then denied she had, claiming it was a fabrication on behalf of Dan Buzzard,
since he had blogged about it earlier today.

 

Screen Shot 2014-04-13 at 9.04.08 pm

Screen Shot 2014-04-13 at 9.23.44 pm

(Text redacted out of respect to the family).

Of course her gullible acolytes are swallowing it whole, in spite of the fact
that the group consists of 141 members and one person even replied, suggesting
that they probably even read it! (This is purely speculation however, as
evidence suggest most anti-vaxers don’t read further than the headline).

Screen Shot 2014-04-13 at 9.17.59 pm

 

Bare faced lies, caught out red-handed.

Reminds me of this video from 2010, when Steve Cannane also caught her out not
remembering what she’d said

This farcical tale is not over yet however. More to come

Tweet

4 Comments / Apr 13.14 / anti-vaccination / by Maggie

Update on Acupuncture in ED – Letter to the editor

Quick update: I promised if our letter to the ed was not published in last
week’s Sunday paper, then I’d put it here.

Tweet

This was written in response to a suggestion from the journalist who wrote the
acupuncture/ED piece which can be seen here.

After some discussion with another science journalist and others, it seems very
likely that it was The Age who instigated this article, probably via the common
scenario of chatting with scientists about a particular subject, then asking
the standard “are you working on anything else right now?”.

This chain of events is supported by a lack of press release on the university
website or sent through the normal channels. Which makes sense as there was
really nothing to release.

Screen Shot 2014-04-13 at 11.52.00 am

Link here

Whilst I’d previously put the blame squarely at the feet of the researchers, my
science journo mate puts it at the feet of the newspaper. Still, the
researchers have since been on radio to spruik their research, so they are
still very much to blame for perpetuating this nonsense.

Screen Shot 2014-04-13 at 11.53.10 am

Link to tweet here

In the tweet above @simbelsin refers to “independent comment” which essentially
mean asking for comment from another scientist or expert who was not directly
involved in the study. This is commonly done in stories on science and
medicine, but was not done here.

Anyway, FWIW, here is what we submitted the The Age.

 

(Note: the word limit for LTE is 200 for this section of the paper but 300 for
LTE of the Drive section. Go figure).

The article “Acupuncture as effective as drugs in treating pain, trial shows”
raises some very important questions about current research practices into
complementary and alternative medicine. The cart was put well before the horse
when the researchers discussed their results “while data from the study is
still being analysed”.

Why did the researchers discuss their results with the media when they have yet
to complete their own data analysis, let alone have the final results published
in a peer reviewed journal? The Australian Code for the Responsible Conduct of
Research (Section 4.12.1) advises against such practice.

Why weren’t placebo sham controls for acupuncture included in the study design,
which are usually mandatory for this type of subjective outcome study? Pain is
extremely sensitive to the placebo effect, and it is impossible to distinguish
any real effects of acupuncture from placebo in the absence of effective
controls.

Lastly, why has this trial, that was funded to the tune of over $400,000 in
2009, still not been published? Systematic investigation of complementary
medicine should be encouraged, but this study, at least according to the
available information and in the absence of a published study, appears to be
bad practice of bad science.

Signed me and my mate John.

Tweet

2 Comments / Apr 13.14 / alternative medicine, bad journalism, Bad Science / by
Maggie

Aust gov: homeopathy not effective. Happy World Homeopathy Awareness Week!

Happy World Homeopathy Awareness Week

Tweet

It’s official. The Aust Government says homeopathy is bollocks.

In a draft report, prepared in consultation with the public and homeopathy
interest groups, Australia’s peak body for supporting health and medical
research, the National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) has
concluded that homeopathy is not effective.

    Overall finding
    NHMRC concludes that the assessment of the evidence from research in humans
    does not
    show that homeopathy is effective for treating the range of health
    conditions considered

These conditions include (but are not exclusive to)
• allergic rhinitis
• attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children
• bruising
• chronic fatigue syndrome
• diarrhoea in children – individualised homeopathy
• fibromyalgia
• hot flushes in women who have had breast cancer
• human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection
• influenza-like illness
• rheumatoid arthritis
• sinusitis
• sleep disturbances or circadian rhythm disturbances
• stomatitis (inflammation of the mouth) due to chemotherapy
• ulcers.
etc

(For a full list, please see the pdf here)

Duh, I hear you say.

Well, yes. And I agree.

This report considered both the findings of the UK House of Commons Evidence
Check for homeopathy (summarised here) which was unequivocally negative and the
Swiss report on homeopathy (summarised here) that claimed it was effective.
However, numerous issues have since been raised with the Swiss report, the
least of which was undeclared conflicts of interest.

According to this report,

“…it contains no new evidence and misinterprets studies previously exposed as
weak; creates a new standard of evidence designed to make homeopathy appear
effective; and attempts to discredit randomised controlled trials as the gold
standard of evidence. Most importantly, almost all the authors have conflicts
of interest, despite their claim that none exist.

In the NHMRC review, the panel declared all their conflicts of interests, which
is a very good thing. And this report supports the UK House of Commons report,
published in 2010.

As a scientist who understands the laws of, well, science I have to wonder why
this was even done to be honest. Especially since, according to some reports,
this has cost the Aust tax payers over $140,000. And also since a previously
leaked draft report (almost 2 years ago) said pretty much the same thing).

Hi NHMRC! Wanna know how homeopathy works? Well, check this website.

Here’s my opinion: homeopathy is magic witch craft that was invented before we
even fully understood the laws of physics and chemistry. It defies all of these
laws which are now accepted science. If it were true, we’d need to change the
basic tenets of science. And I’m not the only one. Even Wikipedia knows.

Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence, and in this case
homeopathy has failed. Dismally.

The full draft report, as a pdf, can be found here.

NB: it’s a draft, meaning it’s open for public submission. Hop to it people.

–
Summary of findings: (my emphasis)

NHMRC’s interpretation of the assessment of the evidence on the effectiveness
of homeopathy

In line with NHMRC’s function to “advising the community” ..and based on the
assessment of the evidence of effectiveness of homeopathy NHMRC believes:

• There is no reliable evidence that homeopathy is effective for treating
health
conditions.

• People who choose homeopathy instead of proven conventional treatment may put
their health at risk if safe and evidence based treatments are rejected or
delayed in
favour of homeopathic treatment.

• Homeopathy should not be used to treat health conditions that are serious, or
could become serious.

• People who are considering whether to use homeopathy should first get advice
from a
health professional (e.g. GP, specialist, nurse practitioner or pharmacist).
Those who
use homeopathy should tell their health professionals, and should keep taking
any
conventional medicines that they have been prescribed.
–

According to the report, the NHMRC has provided more than $86 million in
funding for scientific research into complementary medicine and alternative
therapies since 2000.

This is not necessarily a bad thing. Indeed, I myself work on a supplement. But
when there’s no plausible mechanism and after over 200 clinical trials still
showing mostly negative results, isn’t it time to stop flogging a dead horse?

I think so.

Happy World Homeopathy Awareness Week. Be aware: it doesn’t work.

Tweet

2 Comments / Apr 09.14 / alternative medicine, announcements, homeopathy, News
/ by Maggie

Acupuncture in emergency departments: bad science and bad practice

On Monday, I blogged about a “study” that purported to show that acupuncture
was as effective as analgesics for treatment of pain caused by migraine,
sprained ankles and lower back pain.


Tweet

The problem with this “research” was it has yet to be published – indeed the
news report announcing it said the results were not even completely analysed.
Except for the fact that this was mentioned, the process of going directly to
the press could be in breach of the Australian Code for the Responsible Conduct
of Research.

Section 4.12.1 says, “Discussing research findings in the public arena should
not occur until the findings have been tested through peer review. In
discussing the outcomes of a research project, special care should be taken to
explain the status of the project – for example, whether it is still in
progress or has been finalised”.

Regardless, this represents very poor practice in my opinion, and I can only
presume the researchers did this owing to the lack of critical controls
(specifically, sham acupuncture or some other acupuncture control) in their 3
years $400,000 study, meaning they probably won’t get this published. At least
not anywhere decent anyway.

Well, now I have an update. One of the researchers went on radio to talk about
this, and his comments were like a bingo card of logical fallacies. I couldn’t
bring myself to listen to the broadcast for fear of #stabby, so a very kind
clever person transcribed it for me. So here dear reader, I present it to you,
with my comments in parentheses.

Audio is here

BEGINS

Chris (Announcer): Now chronic pain is something many people have to deal with
on a daily basis and it can be just as debilitating as anything they’re
suffering.

Well a new study out of Melbourne has shown some very promising developments
when it comes to pain relief, and it doesn’t involve any new drug.

The Chinese therapy of acupuncture is currently being put tot the test across
four of Melbourne’s top hospitals as well as RMIT University; and before you
roll your eyes at the idea, let me just tell you about the results, because so
far the results have been pretty amazing!

The study is currently indicating that acupuncture could be just as good as
those serious drugs we take to relieve pain. [NB study is NOT published,
results still being analysed, thus these claims can not be made]

For instance, Panadeine Forte, Votaren even Valium which is quite a
breakthrough in the area of acupuncture; could acupuncture be the future in
pain relief?

On the line with me now is Mark Cohen from the Health Innovations Research
Institute at RMIT University. Mark, welcome to the program.

M Great to be with you Chris.

C The results from this study, pretty promising so far?

M Well they are very promising [not analysed, not published], and these come on
the back of a lot of experience [anecdotal, NB there is nothing wrong with
instigating a study based on observations, this is how much of science happens,
but especially where pain is concerned, you must have very strict controls in
place to ensure you can differentiate between placebo and any effect. This was
not controlled in this study] that we’ve had in Melbourne of Emergency Medicine
physicians who have been trained in acupuncture an who have been using it in
the Emergency Department with great effect, and then we decided, well let’s put
this to the test, and we’ve compared acupuncture for migraine, back pain and
ankle sprain to acupuncture plus drugs, or just drugs alone.

C Interesting. So tell me about just acupuncture alone? You think that it can
give you pain relief equivalent to something like a Panadeine Forte?

M Well, in this study we showed that they are basically equivalent [no, you
didn't. There's an old saying in science, if it's not published you may as well
have not done it] , so that there was no difference between Panadeine Forte,
and not just Panadeine Forte, even opiates, things like Pethidine, and you
know, harder painkillers we often get …

C Uh huh

M …in Emergency Departments

C What about when you put these two together? Acupuncture, and some of these
harder anti-pain drugs?

M Well again, together we found that… and our results are preliminary [read:
unpublished], but we together found that more effective than either one alone.
But, er, with the way we do statistics, and we’re still finalising the
statistical analysis, is at the moment what we can say is they’re deemed
equivalent. So acupuncture was deemed equivalent to pharmacotherapy [not],
which is a whole range of um drugs that are used, according to a protocol in
each Emergency Department

C That’s very interesting, but can you please just explain to people; I know,
I’ve had acupuncture on a couple of occasions in my life for a chronic back
area that I have that, er, gives me a great deal of trouble…

M Uh huh

C ..but when I’ve had acupuncture, I tell you what, I’ve gone without a pain in
that area for sometimes years. So I, I , I, would opt for acupuncture, um, if I
got that pain back again. But just give people an idea of what acupuncture is
and what it does.

M Well acupuncture, I mean, has been used for thousands of years [logical
fallacy, argument from antiquity and also disputed], and it hasn’t just been
used in China, a lot of different traditional medicines have what is called
counter irritation, where you irritate one part of the body with a needle, or
heat, or pressure, to relieve pain in another part. Acupuncture, modern
acupuncture, involves usually disposable needles inserted in precise spots, and
often the best spot to put a needle is the most intensely painful spot, so you
put, you know, a few needles that vary on the condition and where the pain is
that you’re trying to treat, into the body, often then you twiddle the needles,
or you turn, and lift them up and down, and you get this sensation that the
sensation that the acupuncturists call “Dead Chi”…

C That’s right!

M …or “A Chi” and it’s a feeling of numbness, and fullness, and distension, and
a bit of soreness; it’s not quite like electricity, but…

C But it’s not always pleasant, I’ve gotta say Mark

M …it’s not entirely pleasant, but it’s not directly painful…

C No

M …more sore than pain, and it feels a bit forward, sometimes that feeling
travels, you know, along the body…

C Yeah

M …but that feeling generally means you’re going to get a good result, and
there’s, there have been a lot of animal studies that have shown that when you
insert needles, acupuncture needles, you get release of endorphins and a lot of
other neurochemicals which are your body’s own natural painkillers

C So you allow the body to take the pain away from the body?

M That’s right, so that you’re basically alerting to the body, alerting to the
body, saying hey, something’s going on here, deal with it.

C How, how popular is acupuncture? [note: just because something is popular
doesn't mean it works. Plenty of people believe in an invisible sky fairy,
doesn't make it real. Your logical fallacy is argumentum ad populum]

M Well acupuncture’s very, I mean, China, and around the world it’s used very
very commonly; even in Australia I mean most suburban areas would have a
Chinese medicine practitioner practising acupuncture.

C Does your average GP think that acupuncture is a bit “witch doctorish”

M Well, no, I did a study about ten years ago asking GPs their opinion about a
whole range of complementary therapies, and acupuncture was probably the most
accepted, and about 20% of Australian GPs have some training themselves in
acupuncture [again, argumentum ad populum], and acupuncture has had a Medicare
rebate item since the early eighties, so, I mean, you get, you can get
acupuncture on Medicare [doesn't mean it works, you can also claim homeopathy
on Medicare] when it’s done by a doctor, or, you know, you can get it done by a
traditional Chinese therapy…

C So it’s interesting, if you’ve got chronic pain, and you’re taking drugs
consistently, over and over again, it can’t do much for your kidneys or your
liver, could it?

M Well, that’s right, and one of the issues is not just chronic pain, but what
we tested acute pain in the Emergency Department, and the drugs that are used
to treat pain, all have fairly serious side effects, and even Panadeine Forte,
I mean they make you very constipated and nauseous, and often, when you’re
giving an opiate drug, for example, you can’t just give an opiate drug, you
have to give an anti-nausea drug at the same time…

C Yes, yes

M …and other drugs to stop you getting constipated, because then you get
abdominal pain and bloating, so, the drugs themselves, and also in an Emergency
Department you can’t just give someone a dose of opiates and then send them
home, you’ve got to watch them for four hours because they’re going to be
drowsy, and so there are serious side effects to the drugs, so having an
alternative to drug therapy, that’s not a drug, is actually a great boon for
many many patients.

C Yeah. Interesting. And so you must be excited by this, but there’s more to
do?

M Well, there’s certainly more to do [like, er publish the results?], and, and
um this is, we did this in four hospitals, there are two private hospitals,
Cabrini and the Epworth, and two public hospitals, the Northern and the Alfred,
and um, you know the results are the same across the hospitals [no way to tell
with no acupuncture controls], now the question is, if, if acupuncture’s going
to be delivered commonly in the Emergency Department, who’s going to deliver
it, can we train emergency physicians to do acupuncture…[er, easy tiger, maybe
you should publish the results first]

C Yeah, right

M …you know, do we bring in other acupuncturists, what level of training do
they need, but, it’s it’s quite telling that in Australia I know at least three
emergency physicians who have done their own training in acupuncture [is it?
your logical fallacy is argument from authority], and Michael Ben-Meir, who’s
now one of the, he’s now head of the Cabrini Emergency Department, now he’s a
trained acupuncturist, and he uses acupuncture pretty much as a routine therapy
for patients who come to Cabrini Hospital in Melbourne

C A great devotee, all right, good luck, and thank you very much, and well done
with what you’ve discovered.

M Yeah, well thanks, Chris, um yeah it’s encouraging, and we hope, we hope you
know hopefully this will help a lot of people who are in pain and um give them
another option… [when it's published, maybe] 

C Yeah, absolutely. Thank you, Mark!

M It’s a pleasure.

C Mark Cohen from the health Innovations Institute at RMIT University. So maybe
it’s not about taking drugs to get rid of that pain that you may have, maybe
you’ve got to think outside the square and think about acupuncture, it’s not
that witch-doctorish as you may think. We’ll take some calls on that.

[Calls are between DJ and public]

ENDS

I find this practice extremely unethical and irresponsible and the researchers
involved should be ashamed. The media also deserves a slap upside the head, as
described eloquently here by my colleague Mick Vagg. I’ve also submitted a
letter to the editor of the paper who reported the study, penned with my
colleague John Cunningham, and I will publish it here if it doesn’t make the
Sunday paper.

I don’t expect we’ll ever see this research published, but it doesn’t matter
anymore, the horse has has bolted. People think acupuncture works as well as
drugs, based on some very questionable evidence.

In this broadcast, Prof Mark Cohen did not make it sufficiently clear that
these results have not been published and that the correct controls were not
used = bad practice and bad science.

Thanks to Steven Novella who also blogged this here

Tweet

27 Comments / Apr 03.14 / alternative medicine, bad journalism, Bad Science /
by Maggie

Announcing scientific results in the press before peer review = bad science

I wasn’t going to blog about this because meh, but I really think it’s
important to point out the obvious flaws in this “study”.


Tweet

A news item announced the results of an acupuncture study today, proclaiming in
the headline “Acupuncture as effective as drugs in treating pain, trial shows.”

    An acupuncture trial in four Melbourne emergency departments has found it
    is just as good as drugs in relieving lower-back pain and that from
    sprained ankles and migraines.

    Emergency physicians at The Alfred, Northern, Cabrini and Epworth hospitals
    partnered with RMIT’s school of health sciences to see if acupuncture could
    relieve acute pain in hundreds of patients presenting to hospital with
    either lower-back pain, sprained ankles or migraines.

Ok, fine. But then this

    “While data from the study is still being analysed and finalised for
    publication in a medical journal, one of the researchers, Dr Michael
    Ben-Meir, said it showed acupuncture offered the same level of pain relief
    as analgesic drugs when patients rated their pain one hour after treatment.

Wait a second….

“While data from the study is still being analysed and finalised for
publication…”?

So it’s not been published yet? And the data is still being analysed? WTAF?!

Then why are these researchers apparently alerting the media to their findings
when they haven’t even passed peer review? I have a few ideas on why this might
be, which I’ll get to in a minute.

Do not pass step one, do not collect $200.

Do not pass step one, do not collect $200.

But first, it’s obviously difficult, nee impossible, to critique the findings
effectively in lieu of a paper, but there are some obvious faults that stand
out.

So we have three treatment groups:
1) standard pharmaceutical care alone (eg Endone, Panadeine Forte, Voltaren,
Valium)
2) acupuncture alone
3) combination of acupuncture with standard pharmaceutical care

Findings: acupuncture alone delivered equivalent pain relief when compared to a
combination of acupuncture with standard pharmaceutical care or standard care
alone, reported 1 hr after treatment.

Conclusion: acupuncture is as effective as drugs for lower-back pain, sprained
ankles and migraines

Well, the trouble with acupuncture is it’s hard to blind people to the
treatment (and this study was not blinded) so researchers sometimes use what’s
known as sham acupuncture. This means needles are still used but they’re either
inserted in the wrong place (i.e., not along the magical meridian lines) or
they are not inserted far enough to have an effect. This way the researcher can
control whether the acupuncture is having a real effect or it’s the placebo
effect. (sham acupuncture has it’s own issues too, however).

Since it’s not indicated if this control is used here, there’s no way to
determine whether the effect from the acupuncture was real.

Patients reported they felt as much pain relief from acupuncture after one
hour, as they did on pain killers.

Well sure, but we can’t draw any conclusions from this without an acupuncture
control group. Pain is extremely subjective and is highly susceptible to
placebo. Plus, people often feel better one hour after treatment anyway – it’s
because they’ve been in hospital and been attended to. They’ve been looked
after. Of course they feel better. Without effective blinding of treatments
there is simply no way to tell.

In addition the placebo effect is a curious beast – the more invasive a
procedure, the stonger the placebo can be, so you can imagine having needles
stuck in you is likely to make you think your pain has reduced as much or even
more than if you took a tiny white pill.

This claim also seems questionable, “..could open the doors to Australian
hospitals offering the low-cost Chinese therapy, which is used by more than 1
billion people worldwide for pain relief.”

It’s not as simple as this surely. Traditional Chinese medicine practitioners
now need to be registered with APHRA, and what’s so expensive about a packet of
Panadeine Forte? (And on that note, why were apparently a random assortment or
analgesics used? And if that is the case, does each type of analgesic
constitute a separate treatment group?).

Look, all of this is speculation because in the absence of 1) the paper or 2)
the correct controls, this study is meaningless.

Which leads me back to why it’s been announced in the press and not in the
pages of peer review. I suspect it might not pass peer review without the sham
controls. Also odd is that the research data Australia website says the trial
began in 2008, and was due for completion in 2011. So why have the results not
been published yet? Is it because they likely won’t be?

This would be a very big worry for the researchers, especially given that the
NHMRC gave these guys $416,301. Are they announcing it in the press in an
attempt to distract the NHMRC?

Even more of a worry though is the researchers apparent disregard for the
Australian Code for the Responsible Conduct of Research. Section 4.12.1 says,
“Discussing research findings in the public arena should not occur until the
findings have been tested through peer review.”

By all means, study the efficacy of TCM, but at least do it with correctly
designed experiments and try not to waste $400K of tax payers’ money (as if
research doesn’t have enough money to go around). Until such time as that is
done, approach me in A&E with an acupuncture needle, you’ll get a slap upside
the head.

–
EDIT: A friend just suggested this on Facebook and I want to add it because
it’s an important point that I should have included.

Wendy Wilkinson: “Id love to see the methods used for this research. If it ever
gets published properly, that is. How did they recruit the participants? How
were they randomised into the three groups? In busy EDs where this sort of
thing is not an emergency. And most importantly – how long did they wait for
the treatment? Because if they had been sitting in the waiting room for longer
than that 1 hr how have they accounted for regression to the mean as far as
pain goes.

Yep, regression to the mean may have also played a role in this study. VIP
point.

–
UPDATE Monday March 31: Another issue with this study not being blinded is it
may have selected for patients who are sympathetic to the efficacy of
acupuncture. So if you rock up to A&E and someone says, “do you want to be in
our acupuncture trial?”, if you’re me you’ll say “%^&^%&^ get me some drugs
with a demonstrated mechanism of action please!!”. But those who think there’s
something to acupuncture will more likely say yes. This then influences their
pain perception – if you believe it, then it works (ie placebo).

Also, we must consider the role of “wanting to please the nice Dr”. Patients
may report a reduction in pain (later found to be equivalent to the analgesics,
well, ok, they haven’t finished analysing the data yet so who actually knows)
because they have been fussed over and maybe taken to a private room to lie
down and relax etc.

All of these things can introduce confounding variables into studies, which is
why controls are critical. The appropriate controls were not used here. This
study is worthless.

–
Monday March 31st. 11:51: Looks like there might be a few updates on this
story.

Firstly, I want to clarify something re: 4.12 Responsibly communicating
research findings in the public arena. I did not include this section of 4.12.1
(an oversight, not deliberate), “In discussing the outcomes of a research
project, special care should be taken to explain the status of the project –
for example, whether it is still in progress or has been finalised”.

So the researchers did make this clear – that being the results are still being
analysed. Thus it might be fairer to say them releasing this is bad practice
rather than a breach of the Australian Code for the Responsible Conduct of
Research.

Further, I asked the Society and Science editor at The Age (where this was
published) whether they had received this as a press release. He’s not answered
this question yet.


[View the story "Conversation with @adamlmorton and @DrRachie" on Storify]
Tweet

15 Comments / Mar 30.14 / alternative medicine, News / by Maggie

How to avoid false balance and why you should

This week saw new vaccination coverage statistics released by the National
Health Performance Authority and they were generally encouraging showing an
average slight increase overall.


Tweet

Somewhat unsurprisingly, the lowest rates were in Byron Bay where only 66% of 5
year olds are fully covered. One a positive note, the number of children not
fully immunised lowered by nearly 2,000 compared to the previous year (75,002
in 2012–13 compared to 76,769 in 2011–12). Of these, 15,000 are registered as
vaccine refusers

The media jumped on the story and as a result, those of us who occasionally
comment on issues surrounding vaccination where asked to contribute.
Disappointingly, we spent a fair bit of time fighting off media who were
seeking to do false balance. If you’re not familiar with the concept of false
balance, I’ve written about it here and here. Also please read this excellent
blog also covering false balance from Thursday.

In the wash-up though, most of the media was sensible, science based and
factual (some were just amazing – see this Studio10 clip here)

But the usual suspects featured in stories with false balance. For example, one
well known anti-vaccine activist and friend to the AV-SN was featured as “just
a Mum” (sure, no conflict of interest there).

And even worse and more worrying, the National Centre for Immunisation Research
and Surveillance (NCIRS) were once again in the mix.

embed(http://c.brightcove.com/services/viewer/federated_f9?isVid=1&isUI=1)

*NB, Kenny Lydall begins this story bragging that he’s been to rural Africa and
has not had even one vaccination. This raises the question, was he allowed to
enter Australia with no yellow fever vax papers?

These guys should know better, especially since they seem to be one of the few
professionals left that enable the AV-SN via “debates” (see below for
examples). (And yes, Steve Hambleton, I didn’t miss you there either).

I dunno why they keep having to be told, I mean George Carlin says it well.

“Never argue with an idiot. They will only bring you down to their level and
beat you with experience.”

or here you just substitute creationists for anti-vaxers

“Debating creationists on the topic of evolution is rather like trying to play
chess with a pigeon; it knocks the pieces over, craps on the board, and flies
back to its flock to claim victory.” — Scott D. Weitzenhoffer

Or how about this one

“Never mud wrestle with a pig, because you’ll both get dirty and the pig likes
it.” — Anonymous

These debates achieve nothing for the scientist. On the other hand, they lend
the quack undue legitimacy and look good on their CV (but not yours). You might
say meh, who cares, but you only need to look to the families that the AV-SN
have vilified over the years to see the damage this kind of stunt inflicts. It
twists the knife. It’s hurts.

NCIRS, please stop it.

At SAVN, our approach has always been to ask before we say yes. It’s simple
really, a reporter calls you, asks you to do a segment, you say “who else will
be on, what’s your angle”?. If the reporter says they plan to do false balance,
we explain why it is bad, and if they still want to do it, we politely decline.

THE END

This approach works BTW. It has resulted in one prime time news show (The
Project) publicly stating (on air) that they no longer speak to anti-vaxers.
Another (ABC – gov broadcaster) sent a memo to all staff warning them not to
speak to the AVN unless they make it clear they are nothing but an anti-vaccine
lobby and their spokesperson has no qualifications.

From my own experience, a few months ago, I terminated an interview half way
through because the interviewer said they had spoken to Meryl Dorey. Even
though they had already interviewed her, they didn’t go ahead with the story in
the end. Why? Well maybe partly because they had no “controversy” anymore, and
also partly because I took the time to explain to them why false balance is bad
(again, see my previous article here for a thorough explanation) but I also
filled them in on some details about Ms Dorey herself.

Below is a conversation I had with Dr David Hawkes and a journo from ABC 730.
(He didn’t respond after I took the time to explain why we say no to false
balance).

[<a href="//storify.com/DrRachie2/
conversation-with-mrhawkes-adharves-and-drrachie" target="_blank">View the
story "Conversation with @mrhawkes, @adharves and @DrRachie" on Storify</a>]

Other ways we are attempting to quash false balance regarding vaccination is by
getting in touch with journos/ news outlets when they do a good job, just to
say thanks. For example some mates of mine did a Follow Friday on Twitter this
week for media outlets who do not promote false balance. Apart from just being
nice, this also creates a repoir with journos, and establishes contact so that
next time they have a story, they might remember to call you.

    #FF for the media who don’t do #falsebalance on vaccination. Almost forgot
    @MamamiaNews @MiaFreedman — Alison Gaylard (@purplealibongo) March 28, 2014

    #FF for the media who don't do #falsebalance on vaccination. 1/2
    @Joe_Hildebrand @spicertracey @Studio10au #carolduncan @BreakfastNews

    — Dr Dave Hawkes (@mrhawkes) March 28, 2014

     

        #FF for the media who don’t do #falsebalance on vaccination. 2/2
        @2GB873@StevePriceMedia@LaTrioli@mjrowland68@carolduncan@ausjourno

        — Dr Dave Hawkes (@mrhawkes) March 28, 2014

     

        @LaTrioli@theprojecttv Parents, doctors & scientists across Australia
        thank you. Should get @purplealibongo on, she does great work

        — Dr Dave Hawkes (@mrhawkes) March 28, 2014

     

         

One of the issues with Thursday was we were essentially playing whack-a-mole,
and we are aware that we need to develop a pro-active strategy rather than a
reactive one.

More work to do, but at least for the time being we have stopped the AVN (in
name). And thanks to the media who have helped us along the way.

Tweet

6 Comments / Mar 30.14 / anti-vaccination, bad journalism, immunisation,
information for parents, media, vaccination / by Maggie

A(nother) bad week for the AVN. Or should I say AVSN

It’s been a bad week or the AVN. Or should I say AVSN.

Tweet


You can hear the audio version of this report on The Skeptic Zone episode 282,
here.

The AVN have a new name – The Australian Vaccine Skeptics-Network. This was
officially introduced on March 7th, 2014 when it was approved by the Dept of
Fair Trading.

Initially, I was pretty annoyed at this, since I classify myself as a sceptic
of the scientific-scepticism kind (not the loony 9/11 or climate change kind).

However, it was clear to many of us following the findings from the name change
challenge – where the magistrate defined the AVN as “sceptical of vaccines” –
that the AVN would go after the word. This is in spite of Merpyl* having used
it in a derogatory fashion for years, often shortening it to “septics” when
referring to myself and my colleagues. At the same time however she had also
decided that she was a “real sceptic” (she even set-up a blog called The Real
Australian Skeptics” nyuk nyuk Marpyl*). Not “pseudo sceptics” as we were
apparently deemed to be.

So, after more than 12 months (it was Nov 2012 when the minister first ordered
them to change their name) the AVN is now the AVSN.

In reality, the public perception of the term “sceptic” is of climate change
and moon landing sceptics – the term has definitely evolved to mean something
other than scientific scepticism – so in actual fact it’s probably not a bad
thing. However, in my (and others) opinions, it doesn’t go far enough. In an
ideal world, I’d have liked to see The Anti-Vaccine Network, as this absolutely
describes what they do, but we can’t have nice things all the time.

In a twist, Merl* is claiming she can maintain the acronym AVN and the URL
avn.org because Vaccine-Skeptics is one word. Er, I dunno about this.

Also of interest is that another person had registered the name Australian
Vaccination Sceptics Network (note the “C” and lack of hyphen) several months
before the AVN did. According to business law here in OZ, they have a right to
challenge such a similar name.

I imagine the AVN are pretty pleased with themselves for pulling this little
stunt, but unfortunately for them, the media coverage of the name change was
peppered with “AVSN” and anti-vaccine network. This prompted Mapel* to huff
that she had “told these people” they are still known as the AVN. I wonder what
the Minister for Fair Trading will have to say about that…

The AVSN smugness was short lived however, as the following day, the first
draft of the shiny and new 2013 HCCC investigation into them was released.

Readers may recall that the HCCC first investigated the AVN back in 2009 and
this resulted in them issuing a public warning about the information on their
website. The AVN successfully challenged the investigation (on a technicality)
and thus the public warning was quashed and their charity licence re-instated.
There must have been some very red faces in various government acronym that
day.

However, the government was determined not to give up, so the technicality that
was the HCCC’s undoing was changed by legislation to include an amendment that
enables the Commissioner to instigate investigations, even in the absence of
public complaints (in this case, there were 2 complaints from the public and
one from the Commissioner).

Thus, almost as soon as the law was changed, the HCCC began a second
investigation into the AVSN. The draft report released on Tuesday was published
by the AVSN and they are now given an opportunity to respond to the
Commission’s requests. Essentially, the HCCC trawled the AVSN’s website and
selected 8 points that they identified as misleading, they then asked experts
to provide evidence for why they were misleading. Their findings make for some
good reading (and you can access the full pdf here) and are laden with “remove
and keep permanently removed”.

For example “Remove and keep permanently removed the misleading and incorrect
statement that “vaccines have never been tested, either individually or in
combination.”

“Remove and keep permanently removed the misleading information about the link
between mercury and autism.”

One wonders just how much stuff will remain on their site if they agree to
co-operate with the HCCC on these points.

The AVSN have also published several of their responses to the HCCC and as you
can guess they’re chock-a-block filled with hubris, (as we’ve come to expect).
If you can stand it, go have a look, they are now up to Part 6 of calling the
HCCC incompetent and hopeless. This is not gonna end well.

It seems to me very likely the AVN will not comply with the requests of the
HCCC and it seems the HCCC also think this as they’ve already written the
public warning (pdf) that will be released when the AVSN refuse to comply.

I’m so very pleased to see this back after 3 years! (Just quietly, I think it’s
better than the last one).

But the icing on the cake came earlier today when it was noticed that the AVSN
had surrendered their charity license. SAVN have been trying to get the
mainstream media interested in the AVSN’s finances for some time since we have
been pouring over their financial statements for years. For a long time, we
have noticed discrepancies regarding expenses including such things as,

• nearly $5000 for travel in 2012 for Meryl to attend high school reunion/
”conference”,
• $39,000 on computers in 2003/2004 in addition to web costs,
• $5000/edition for the LW magazine in editors fees
• $170,000 of “other” expenses in 2010

Even more of a worry for a charity however, is that we can find no evidence of
any monies going to charitable purposes. (In fact, in the entire time I’ve been
observing the AVN I’ve never seen them do anything charitable).

To cite a recent example, most recently, the AVSN were promoting a crowd
sourcing campaign for a child who suffered a very rare vaccine reaction which
rendered her blind. Her parents were raising money to build her a sensory
garden, yet despite a monetary challenge from an SAVNer to match his $1000
donation, they never did donate to that cause (at least not as far as we know –
and the campaign lists all the donors). This is despite her claiming publicly
that “the AVN helps vaccine injured children and families everyday”.
Despicable.

You can read the full story which appeared in the Fairfax press here. I like it
best for this bit

“A chartered accountant who examined the documents for Fairfax Media, but
declined to be named for fear he would be harassed, said the documents were
”the worst set of financial statements I have ever seen”.

Heh, ”the worst set of financial statements I have ever seen”.

See below for the evidence that the AV-SN have surrendered their license.

License_check

Finally, the was much fun to be had on SAVN the last few days and one of our
eagle eyed “likers” noticed Marly* had liked a post on a FB page with her
secondary account, but signed it off as a particularly nasty vicious
(previously anonymous) AVN admin, B52. (Full post here).

This admin has been around for some time, and could be classified as the attack
dog of the page, whereas Maryl* portrays the image of the “kindly Aunt”. See
the image below.

B52caughtout

This was not the funniest part though, it was her backpedalling and lies to try
to cover up her error that were the most hilarious. First she came onto SAVN
claiming the account was not her and we had made it to impersonate her. She
then went back to her aciolytes and declared we were “ebil septics” and could
people please report the “fake account”.

tiedinknotsfromallthelies

Only problem was, the account that posted as B52 has the url –meryl.dorey. The
account she said we had made to impersonate her and had posted as B52 had the
url –meryll.dorey. See the difference? So essentially, she got caught, decided
to create a new account to pretend “ebil septics” but it backfired when even
her followers spotted the different urls and questioned her.

Oh a tangled web we weave.

So it has been a busy week. But it’s also been packed full of lulz. And when
that concerns the AVSN, it can’t be a bad thing.

—
*Note: I have used various incarnations of the name of the ex-president of the
AVN in this blog post – not out of disrespect – but because over the new year,
she has a slew of people banned (some for weeks) on FB for “using her name
without her permission”. Since I did not seek her permission, I have not used
her name here.

Tweet

7 Comments / Mar 16.14 / anti-vaccination, consumer information, immunisation,
Skeptic Zone Reports, Skeptics Zone / by Maggie

Antivax chiros and accountability – as evasive as a subluxation

A few Thursdays ago, chiros in Australia copped a bollocking on Catalyst as Dr
Maryanne Demasi turned a spotlight on their profession.

Tweet

And it wasn’t pretty. What resulted was examples of quackery, infighting
between professional bodies and the revelation that chiro does not have an
adverse events (AE) reporting system.

You can watch the full report and read the transcript here

I want to emphasise the lack of an AE reporting system, because you often hear
the cry from chiros that their profession is overwhelmingly safe, which is
usually followed by some strawman about the numbers of iatrogenic deaths in
science based medicine. But how do they know their profession is safe if they
don’t record adverse events?

Well, to be blunt they don’t.

Even before the programme aired on Thursday night, many chiros had hit the
Catalyst FB page,  in a pre-programme show of support (perhaps as result of an
email that had been sent by the Chiropractic Association of Australia (CAA) to
all chiros warning them about the impending criticism).

I decided to jump in too because I had a burning question that had been bugging
me for weeks. It concerns the vaccination status of paediatric chiros and
occurred to me when I saw some pictures of chiropractors leaning over very
young children to adjust them or whatever they do.

This worries me for several reasons, 1) Australia has been in the grips of a
pertussis epidemic and kids have died 2) it’s thought that it is adults who are
passing on the bacteria because their vaccination has worn off (pertussis
vaccination only lasts between 4 and 8 years) and 3) kids under the age of 12
months are most likely to suffer and die from infection with pertussis given
that they are not fully vaccinated thus they’re not protected.

Also by way of background, there are two professional associations for chiros
in Australia, the CAA who previously had no policy in vaccination but published
one (of sorts) in May 2013.

It’s pretty wishy washy in my opinion,

“Chiropractors do not provide vaccination services; Chiropractors should
encourage their patients to make informed health care decisions and to consult
their GP in relation to the risks and benefits of vaccination.”

The other being the The Chiropractic and Osteopathic College of Australasia
(COCA) who are quite clear about their stance on vaccination,

“(COCA) endorses the Government of Australia’s policy and position on
immunisation as a simple, safe and effective way of protecting people against
harmful diseases.”

The full policy can be found here (PDF)

So I had a burning question for paediatric chiros, concerning duty of care for
babies and what steps they take to ensure they’re protected during
manipulations. I ask this because my guess is if the chiros themselves are
anti-vaccination then it seems unlikely they will be diligent about getting
boosters, but I could be wrong and I hope I am.

Well known to readers of this blog is anti-vaccine paediatric chiropractor,
recently the secretary of the CAANSW, Nimrod Weiner, and who has published
several pictures of himself leaning over babies whilst adjusting them on his
Facebook page.

Nimrod Weiner declined to comment on the Catalyst episode, (even though a
complaint made about his anti-vaccine material was mentioned) so I started off
by commenting on a post made by Dr Tony Croke, who says on his website that he
“..is skilled in cranial adjusting techniques, which are often very helpful for
babies and children”.

He has also previously been a professional member of the anti-vaccination lobby
group the AVN (details – well, sort of – here). He is also on the National
Board of the CAA, who approved a continuing professional development course by
notorious anti-vaccine chiro Tim O’Shea (see coverage here).

Screen Shot 2013-07-21 at 3.10.12 PM

Note the time stamp, 22:45, 12th July, 2013.

I had no luck sadly, so I posted a new thread on July 13th at 00:05

Screen Shot 2013-07-21 at 2.39.21 PM

When still no chiropractors commented, my friend Annette had a go

Screen Shot 2013-07-21 at 3.14.39 PM

Eventually a chiropractor by the name of Steele Butcher jumped in with this

Screen Shot 2013-07-21 at 4.20.17 PM

Let me repeat that,
“As with many professions politics get in the way.”

Politics gets in the way of duty of care to babies. Babies who cannot fend for
themselves and are susceptible to vaccine preventable disease which could so
easily be prevented if the CAA had the balls to tell their paediatric chiros to
get boosted (if they are not, once again I hope I am wrong).

This was my response to Steele.

Screen Shot 2013-07-21 at 4.00.39 PM

Let me make this as clear as possible.

I am not accusing anyone of infecting kids with pertussis. I am seeking an
answer to the question, “if you’re working with kids are you considering their
welfare by having a booster?”.

On the surface this seems like a simple question but over a week later it
remains unanswered by any chiros – at least the ones that flooded the Catalyst
FB page anyway.

Screen Shot 2013-07-21 at 4.04.53 PM

You can read the entire thread here if you’re interested. Not that it offers
any answers.

So we remain none the wiser about the duty of care of paediatric chiros to
vulnerable kids who are at risk of contracting any number of infections from
adults who have not been boosted for VPDs. On another thread I asked the chiros
what their code of conduct had to say about this and once again this.

I have been to seminars given by paediatric chiros before, in fact ones on the
topic of vaccination where I’ve listened to chiros tell parents to get their
kids to a chiro as soon as possible after leaving hospital. Within hours if
possible.

But at what risk? In medicine, decisions about interventions are determined
based on a risk versus benefit ratio. For example, there is a risk in
undergoing surgery but if the benefit of removing a tumour or whatever the
problem may be, outweighs the risks, then people decide to do it.

But what about the risk ratio for paediatric chiro? Well, when the benefits are
a a bit better than placebo, but the risks include sustaining an injury or a
vaccine preventable disease, then it’s clear. Avoid it like the plague.

Tweet

UPDATE: I’ve just asked the question of Tony Croke again.

Screen Shot 2013-07-21 at 4.34.21 PM

Tweet

16 Comments / Jul 21.13 / alternative medicine, anti-vaccination, chiropractic,
vaccination / by Maggie

<< Previous Entries
The Skeptics' Book of Pooh-Pooh

Contains Reason. Not Excuses.
Pages

  • About/Contact
  • Archives
  • Comments policy

Recent Comments

  • Maggie on AIDS “cure” scammer on the prowl in Sydney
  • Brett on Live Blood Analysis – hocus pocus?
  • texto on The Vega test – a spectacular rip-off.

Recent Posts

  • Sticking up for science. Whose job is it?
  • Naming and shaming for ALS awareness
  • “Did I say that? I don’t believe I did..” Meryl Dorey, bald faced lies.

About Maggie

Maggie is the pseudonym of a cell biologist working in ageing research in
Sydney Australia. Pooh Pooh is the official blog of the Skeptic Zone Podcast.

YAS Blog Anthology Finalist[big-blog-theory-finalist]

[SWKA]

[shorties-widget]

[88x31]

Tags

alternative medicine Andrew Wakefield anti-vaccination Anti-vaccination
information Anti-vaccination network anti-vaccine Australian Government
Australian Skeptics Australian Vaccination Network autism AVN Bad Science Ben
Goldacre Brian Deer British Chiropractic Association CAM Channel 7 chiropractic
Dana McCaffery David McCaffery General Medical Council GMC HCCC Health Care
Complaints Commission homeopathy immunisation information for parents Jeni
Barnett legal action Meryl Dorey MMR quackery quacks Rachael Dunlop Richard
Saunders scam Simon singh ten23 TGA The One Therapeutic Goods Administration
Toni McCaffery vaccination whooping cough woo
Blogroll

  • Australian Skeptics
  • Bad Astronomy
  • Bad Science
  • Boing Boing
  • Jack of Kent
  • Neurologica Blog
  • Ratbags
  • Science Based Medicine
  • Science-Based Pharmacy
  • Skeptic Zone
  • Young Australian Skeptics

Search the archives by date

    January 2016
M  T  W  T  F  S  S
<< Jul       
            1  2  3
4  5  6  7  8  9  10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30 31

Wordpress theme "Modicus Remix" by Art Culture.
Customised for scepticsbook.com by VIVidWeb

web analytics


  • About/Contact
  • Archives
  • Comments policy

(C) Copyright 2008 The Skeptics' Book of Pooh-Pooh . Thanks for visiting!


  • Login

    You are not logged in
    Login :
    [                    ]
    Password:
    [                    ]
    [Login >>] [ ] Remember me
    Don't have an account? Register 
