bg image(/wisdom/templates/images/clouds.jpg)
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       _
    embed(/wisdom/templates embed(/wisdom/templates embed(/wisdom/templates
    /images/reality1.swf)          /images/           /images/reality2.swf)
                             churchofreality.swf)
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
    Welcome Home                                     [search...           ]

  Menu of Reality    _           Our World View is Real Reality            _
                       [fishl] We are Realists practicing Realism  [fishr]
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━                   Winning Souls for Darwin!
  
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━      If It's Real We Believe in It!
  
  ━                    Welcome to the Church of Reality. Welcome to the
    Login Form         Real World. The Church of Reality is a positive
  Username             force for change and you can be part of it. You can
  [          ]         help make it happen. There is a lot of material
  Password             here. We hope you will invest the time to read it.
  [          ]         The short version of what the Church of Reality is
  [ ] Remember me      about is:
  [Login]              [cor-logo2]
  Lost Password?
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━      Reality is our God
     Latest News       Science is our Bible
    • The Evolution    Evidence is our Scripture
      of Software      Big History is our Creation Story
    • Humanity and     Ecology is our Theology
      AI sharing the   Integrity is our Salvation
      Universe         Positive Evolution is our Mission
    • The Meaning of
      Artificial       The Church of Reality is a religion based on the
      Life             practice of Realism, which is a dedication to the
    • The Artificial   pursuit of the understanding of objective Reality.
      Intelligence     Our motto is, "If it's real, we believe in it."
      Control          Since no one knows all of Reality, the Church of
      Problem Solved   Reality is a religious commitment to the pursuit of
    • The Emergence    Reality the way it really is. We think about
      of AI            thinking. We wonder about wondering. We try to
    • Artificial       understand the understanding of understanding. We
      Intelligence     are Explorers, not followers. The phrase "What is
      needs a          Real?" is our Sacred Question and the word
      Purpose          "Reality" is our Sacred Message. We talk about
    • The Meaning of   Reality, think about Reality, and aim to make
      Meaning in the   Reality more important in society.
      Context of
      Reality          The Church of Reality is based upon the Authority
    • The God          of Evidence
      Comparison       rather than the Authority of Scripture
      Tests
    • Where Science    
      and Atheism      Reverend Reality Speaks!
      Fall Short
    • Reverence for    The Church of Reality is Religion 3.0. Religion 1.0
      Reality          was about the authority of elders. Religion 2.0 was
    • Is               about the authority of scripture. Religion 3.0 is
      Personifying     about the authority of evidence. This is a process
      Reality          we call the Evidential Reformation. We attempt
      Useful?          answer the great questions that other religions
    • Is Reality       address, like what is right and wrong, what is the
      God?             meaning of life, how do people live together in a
    • What deserves    community, and what are our responsibilities to
      the title GOD?   ourselves and to each other. We address these
    • The God          concerns in the context of Big History, our present
      Thought          Reality, and our future evolution. We are
      Experiment       particularly focused on the future, which we call
    • Terms            the Sacred Direction.
    • Compatibility
      with other       What we consider real is based on knowing rather
      Religions and    that choosing to believe something. The difference
      Philosophies     between knowing and believing is knowing is based
    • Life on Other    on the scientific method, which we call the Sacred
      Planets          Method. We use evidence, proof, logic, and
    • Life keeps       reasoning to determine what is real. That doesn't
      getting better   make us infallible, sometimes we get it wrong. But
    • Humanity's       when we realize we are wrong we change our minds
      Sacred Purpose   because we have a value system that puts Reality
    • New Evolution    first.
    • Big Evolution
    • Old Evolution
    • Human            The Church of Reality is about making a religious
      Metamorphosis    commitment to the pursuit of the understanding of
    • We are more      Reality as it really is.
      than just our
      biology          ┌─────────────────────┐
    • What will we     │ Join our Email List │
      teach the        └─────────────────────┘
      Children of      We are Monorealists, which means we believe in The
      Humanity?        One True Reality. This Reality is the sum of
    • We are all a     everything that actually exists. Our definition of
      single           Reality includes what some people call "other
      individual       realities" that actually are real with the
    • The Children     exclusion of imaginary realities and religious
      of Humanity      fiction. We care about what is real, not what we
    • Understanding    think is real or what we want to believe is real.
      how our          The Church of Reality puts "real" Reality first.
      emotions guide
      us               The Church of Reality is not just a religion of
    • Understanding    science, it is a religion of people understanding
      our Evolution    Reality through science. We explore Reality from
    • Two Paths -      the human perspective. In order to explore Reality,
      Evolution or     we need a strong, healthy society where people can
      Extinction       live freely and peacefully, have more Telescope
    • The Meaning of   Time, and the human race can evolve toward a better
      Meaning          future. The pursuit of Reality is something that is
    • Our Role in      a shared process. It's something we do together as
      the Universe     a church, as a community, and as the human race.
    • The Trinity
    • Wasted           We are about Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of
    • Afterlife        Reality!

                       The Church of Reality provides a religious identity
                       for people who have made a personal commitment to
                       pursue Reality the way it really is. When we are
                       asked, "What religion are you?," we answer that we
                       are Realists; we practice Reality because we
                       believe in Reality. We also provide a sense of
                       community, a social structure, and a moral compass
                       to define right and wrong. We provide a sense of
                       purpose about who we are, why we exist, and how we
                       live our lives, in the context of science and
                       logic.

                       We are of One Planet - we are all here together -
                       and we are committed to making the future better
                       than it is today. We are committed to making sure
                       humanity evolves in a positive direction.

                       [choose-rea] The Church of Reality recognizes the
                       fact that the human race has a vast amount of
                       shared knowledge. We call this shared knowledge the
                       Tree of Knowledge, and it is through the growth of
                       this tree that we can explore the universe around
                       us. As the Tree of Knowledge grows, we evolve
                       toward a better tomorrow, one where we will know
                       more about Reality than we know today. Realism is
                       not just a casual acceptance of Reality as real.
                       Realism is a deeply felt choice, a commitment to a
                       disciplined approach to determine what's real and
                       to allow us to evolve in a positive direction.

                       [reality-re] Realists are not without values or
                       morality. Our values are based on Humanism rather
                       than a fictional holy book. As Realists, our values
                       include Positive Evolution, Exploration, Honesty
                       and Integrity, Freedom, Individualism, Peace,
                       Courage, Environmentalism, Compassion, Justice,
                       Inclusiveness, Scrutiny and Doubt, Humility, Reason
                       , Wisdom, and Personal Responsibility. We believe
                       in Original Virtue rather than Original Sin. We are
                       a Doubt-Based rather than Faith-Based religion.
                       These Sacred Principles form the basis for our
                       Church Doctrine and are logically consistent with
                       our missions.

                       [cor-logo3] The Church of Reality is an evolving
                       religion. We are not tied to a fixed doctrine that
                       was written in the past and is slowly becoming
                       obsolete. If we get it wrong, we fix our mistakes.
                       We are an Open Source Religion and everyone is
                       welcome to participate in the development and
                       improvement of our religion. We live on a vast
                       wondrous universe that we are just beginning to
                       explore. Why would someone want to waste their
                       entire existence on a fictional world view when
                       there's all this wonderful Reality to investigate
                       and understand?

                       The Church of Reality is an Emergent Religion. Just
                       as apples grow on apple trees when humanity evolves
                       to a certain level something like the Church of
                       Reality must occur. Humanity has two paths. We can
                       either evolve forward or we will become extinct. We
                       will either Stay in the Game or we will be Left
                       Behind. Since we were created through the process
                       of evolution and our ancestors all the way back to
                       Pond Scum did what it took to survive, we are
                       programmed by evolution to try to continue to
                       exist. We therefore accept, through evolutionary
                       bias, that to exist is better than to not exist. In
                       order to continue to exist we have to evolve
                       forward and we need to be in Right Relationship
                       with Reality to do that. And that defines the
                       mission and the purpose of the Church of Reality,
                       that humanity should continue to exist and evolve
                       forward so that we stay in the game. Our
                       descendants should look back at this time and be
                       thankful we did what we do here today. Otherwise,
                       if we do the wrong thing, they might regret what we
                       do today, or there may be no one around to look
                       back. We will be forgotten.

                       What is Reality?
                       Reality is that which when you stop believing in it
                       - it doesn't go away. ~ Philip K. Dick

                       Are you already a Realist? - Do you find yourself
                       thinking about Reality? Do you think that it's
                       important that what you believe in is actually
                       real? Do you think for yourself rather than just
                       believe what you are told to believe? When you
                       counsel friends on important matters, do you advise
                       them to take Reality into consideration? Do you
                       believe the world would be better off if Reality
                       were a more important part of society? if you
                       answered YES to these questions, you may already be
                       a Realist.

                        A religion, old or new, that stressed the
                       magnificence of the Universe as revealed by modern
                       science might be able to draw forth reserves of
                       reverence and awe hardly tapped by the conventional
                       faiths. Sooner or later, such a religion will
                       emerge.  ~ Carl Sagan

                       If you like what you see, then join our Mailing
                       List to get the latest announcements. We also
                       appreciate those who link to us and review the
                       Church of Reality in their blogs. We have a good
                       religion started here. All we need is people to
                       spread the word about it.


                       Church of Reality Introduction Podcast Listen Now!

                       The Sacred Missions of the Church of Reality are:

                        1. We Believe in Reality - the Way It Really Is
                        2. We Spread the Sacred Message - Reality
                        3. We Choose the Sacred Direction - Forward
                        4. We Honor the Tree of Knowledge
                        5. We Ask the Sacred Moral Question - What Is Good
                        6. We Issue the Sacred Challenge
                        7. We Are Activists - We Make It Happen
                        8. We Unite Religion and Reality

                        

                       We believe in Reality - the way it really is!

                       If it's real - we believe in it. The name defines
                       the religion. The Church of Reality is a Personal
                       Commitment to the Truth. We believe in real
                       reality, not the way we want reality to be, not our
                       personal reality, but real objective reality the
                       way it really is. We Realists are explorers and we
                       explore the universe together with our minds. We
                       think about thinking. We wonder about wondering. We
                       attempt to understand the Understanding of
                       Understanding. We ponder the Great Questions. We
                       are a curious people and we are bound together in
                       our quest to know the real world that we really
                       live in.
                       Read more...

                        

                       We Spread the Sacred Message - Reality

                       Our mission is to spread the importance of reality
                       everywhere, to think about reality, to talk about
                       reality, to allow reality to transform our being.
                       Every time we mention the word Reality we spread
                       the Sacred Message. We are here to ask the Sacred
                       Question - "What is Real?" We want people to
                       consider reality when making important decisions.
                       By spreading the Sacred Message we cause people to
                       be Real in the Sacred Moment (which is Now). Our
                       mission is to say "Reality" as many times as we can
                       and to get other people to think about reality as
                       often as we can. We want people to be more
                       realistic in their daily lives and to spend more
                       time every day wondering about what is really real.
                       Read more...

                        

                       We Honor the Tree of Knowledge

                       The Tree of Knowledge represents the sum total of
                       all human understanding. It is the shared knowledge
                       of the human race. It is the repository of
                       everything we know. The fact that you can read this
                       is because you can read and communicate with a
                       common language that is among the fruits of the
                       Tree of Knowledge. The human race survives and
                       thrives through our shared knowledge. Our
                       understanding of reality and our evolutionary
                       process is through growing the Tree of Knowledge.
                       Read more...

                        

                       We Choose the Sacred Direction - Forward

                       The Sacred Direction is forward - onward and
                       upward. Our world view is Futurism not Dogmatism.
                       Our Principle of Positive Evolution commits us to
                       envision a future that is better than today. We are
                       one planet and we are all in this together on our
                       little ball in the universe. In order to answer the
                       Sacred Question and explore our reality, society
                       must evolve forward.

                       In order for us to explore reality the way it
                       really is, we have to continue to evolve forward.
                       We need to become a better society. We need to
                       develop new technology. We need to find better ways
                       to feed ourselves, to cure diseases, to keep our
                       environment clean, to advance the sciences, to
                       educate our children, to understand our minds, to
                       live in peace with one another, and to have a fair
                       and just society. These things cause us to progress
                       and to move forward as a human race so that we can
                       understand our world and the universe of which we
                       are a part.
                       Read more...

                        

                       We Ask the Sacred Moral Question - What is Good?

                       The Sacred Moral Question is, "Is this a Good
                       Thing?" What does "good" mean? That too is involved
                       in the Sacred Moral Question. Right and Wrong and
                       morality and ethics are all relative to your basic
                       assumptions and goals. We base our morality on
                       reality and it is our duty to make sure that
                       reality is taken into consideration when questions
                       of right and wrong are decided. The commitment to
                       Reality is a commitment to truth, honesty, wisdom,
                       and responsibility. The Church of Reality is
                       committed to getting the moral questions right.
                       Read more...

                        

                       We Issue the Sacred Challenge

                       There are a lot of religions and many of them have
                       an Extinctionist perspective on the future of the
                       world. They look forward to the world ending in
                       their lifetime. Our religion is based on Positive
                       Evolution and the progress of humanity is sacred to
                       us. We therefore challenge other religions on the
                       basis of reality to help ensure that they don't
                       destroy civilization pursuing their fiction based
                       religious fantasies. One of our missions is to
                       influence other religions to embrace reality and
                       help them evolve into a better religion that
                       doesn't threaten the future of the human race.
                       Read more...

                        

                       We are Activists - We make it Happen

                       We are an activist religion. We don't just find
                       problems - we solve problems. We are committed to
                       coming up with solutions and take responsibility
                       for bringing new concepts into reality. We make
                       sure that the job is done right. We are a
                       community, and we do the work needed to make the
                       community work. We go out and learn, we try to
                       understand, and we spend a lot of time thinking. We
                       give of ourselves for the common good of all
                       people. In the Spirit of the Tree - our shared
                       knowledge - we support sharing. It is our duty to
                       look around and figure out how to make it all work.
                       Read more...

                        

                       We Unite Religion and Reality

                       By adopting the name "Church of Reality" we are
                       dedicating ourselves to solving the puzzle of how
                       to create a religion that is based on reality. They
                       say it can't be done, but we say it can and must be
                       done. We accept the task of creating a religion
                       that provides all the community services that other
                       religions provide, while staying true to the
                       principles of science and logic. We accept the
                       axiom that this is possible and we dedicate
                       ourselves to the seemingly impossible task of
                       making it work.

                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

                        
                       Bringing Religion into    Reality as a Religious
                       the 21st Century          Identity

                       [94-01t] The Church of    [94-22t] The Church of
                       Reality is a religion     Reality is different in
                       based on the practice of  that we are not dedicated
                       Realism. It is a religion to a fictional world
                       that is based on          view. Our world view is
                       believing in everything   to see reality the way it
                       that is real. Our motto   really is. Other
                       is, "If it's real, we     religions' world views
                       believe in it." Since no  are based on mythology.
                       one knows all of reality, All religions have some
                       the Church of Reality is  basis in reality. Most
                       about the pursuit of      would agree that murder
                       reality the way it really is bad. On those
                       is. We commit to being    universal concepts we in
                       intellectually honest     the Church of Reality
                       with ourselves, and with  agree. But in those other
                       others, so that we can    religions, if their world
                       cut through the mythology view contradicts reality,
                       and understand the        they are expected to
                       understanding of          reject reality in favor
                       understanding.            of their world view.
                                                 Rarely are other
                       Our world view is that    religions dedicated to
                       religion is evolving in   the pursuit of reality
                       the Sacred Direction and  the way it really is. In
                       that the Church of        this church, if you come
                       Reality is a blueprint    to realize that what you
                       for religious evolution.  currently believe is
                       We want to inject reality wrong, you are expected
                       into the world view of    to change your mind.
                       other religions so that   That's what's different
                       we are all improved       about the Church of
                       through Realism.          Reality. The beliefs are
                       Read more...              not static. Reality is a
                                                 learning process. We are
                                                 an evolving religion. Of
                                                 all the religious choices
                                                 out there, we believe
                                                 that Reality should be
                                                 one of those choices.
                                                 Read more...

                                                  
                       Fundamental Concepts      What the Church of
                                                 Reality is Not
                       [94-53tx] Every religion
                       has it's own world view   [95-11t] To avoid
                       and culture. The Church   confusion and
                       of Reality is no          misconceptions, here is a
                       different. Our world view list of things that the
                       and culture are rooted in Church of Reality is not.
                       the Sacred Principles     Sometimes a religion can
                       which define our ethical  better clarify what it is
                       standards. Although our   by stating what it isn't.
                       mission is to explore     We are like other
                       reality, we need to deal  religions in many ways
                       with a lot of other       and in many ways we are
                       related issues to do      not like other religions.
                       that. Here is an overview Here is a list of what we
                       of what being a Realist   are not.
                       is all about.             Read more...
                       Read more...
                                                  
                        
                       _ [spacer]

                                            Newsflash                      _
                       The IRS has approved the 501(C)3 tax exempt status
                       of the Church of Reality.

                        
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       Please link to us, discuss us in online forums, and
                          blog about us. Every time anyone thinks about
                           reality the world becomes a little smarter.
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                  Spelling and Grammar errors?
                       spelling@churchofreality.org - please identify page
                             and location in the page of the error.
                             The Church of Reality is a non-prophet
                                          organization.
                       "Reality®" and "Church of Reality®" are registered
                              trademarks of the Church of Reality.
                       _ [spacer]
                                                                               
