The Atheist Experience (Live)

Atheist           The Atheist Experience TV Show
Experience Links
                  Atheist Experience 20.03: Godless in Dixie
  • Home page
  • Live ustream  Neil Carter talks about his experiences as an out atheist in
    feed          Mississippi.
  • Our YouTube   
    Channel       This episode aired on January 17, 2016.
  • Show archive
    & content     What is the Atheist Experience?
    feeds
  • Fan           The Atheist Experience is a weekly Internet television show
    appreciation, based in Austin, Texas geared at a non-atheist audience.
    including     Every week we field live calls from atheists and believers
    video clips   alike, and you never know what you're going to get! Sometimes
  • E-mail us     it can get quite feisty indeed! You don't want to miss it.
  • Promotional
    videos
  • Technical FAQ The Atheist Experience is produced by the Atheist     embed
  • Scrapbook     Community of Austin. The Atheist Community of Austin  (http:/
                  is organized as a nonprofit educational corporation   /
Personalities     to develop and support the atheist community, to      www.youtube.com
                  provide opportunities for socializing and friendship, /v/
  • Matt          to promote secular viewpoints, to encourage positive  Nw2tpVaQsRg?
    Dillahunty    atheist culture, to defend the first amendment        version
  • Russell       principle of state-church separation, to oppose       =3)
    Glasser       discrimination against atheists and to work with      "You're
  • Don Baker     other organizations in pursuit of common goals.         the
  • Jeff Dee                                                            Devil"
  • Tracie Harris See Frank's "You're the Devil!" promo, right, or all   Promo
  • John          our promos.
    Iacoletti
  • Jen Peeples   If you'd like to check out other "bite sized" nibbles
  • Martin Wagner of The Atheist Experience, check out our fan
                  appreciation page which has lots of clips extracted
ACA Links         by our fans.

  • Atheist       What's the upcoming schedule?
    Experience
    Blog            • 01/24/16: Host Matt Dillahunty and co-host Jen Peeples
  • Atheist         • 01/31/16: Host Russell Glasser and co-host Tracie Harris
    Community of
    Austin        How do I catch it on TV?
  • Atheism FAQ
    (frequently   We are no longer on in the Austin TV market. We are currently
    asked         an Internet-only show.
    question)
  • Non Prophets  Can I see or hear the show some other way?
    Podcast
  • Godless       Yes, watch us live on ustream or via our YouTube
    Bitches       channel. Tune in Sundays around 4:30 to 5:30 pm
    Podcast       Central US Time. Check the clock at the right for
  • Iron Chariots Austin's current time. Since we are no longer tied to
    Wiki          a studio schedule, we often start and end a bit late.

Follow Us         We also have most of our episodes on YouTube and       Austin
                  Google Plus. We provide MP3 and OGG audio files of our  Time
  • google+       shows for download. You can even subscribe to these
  • ustream.tv    via RSS audio syndication (e.g. Podcast). We also sell
  • Freethought   DVDs of the show and audio compilations in the ACA's
    Blogs FTB     products area. See our show archive page for more
                  information.

                  Want to help us continue our work?

                  Consider making a donation to the general fund of the Atheist
                  Community of Austin. The donation will help keep the show on
                  the air (and your computer) with high quality content each
                  week.

                  Can I meet the cast and crew?

                  Yes! Typically the cast and crew goes to a meet-up after the
                  show. Atheist and atheist-friendly people are welcome to join
                  us. We really enjoy meeting our viewers!

                  Where is the dinner meet-up after the show?

                  We have the meet-up after the live TV show on Sunday. We are
                  meeting at Threadgills's North (6416 N Lamar Blvd) around
                  6pm.

                  We change restaurants periodically and we try to meet at
                  various locations around Austin. We're always looking for
                  suggestions for good places to eat. If you have a favorite
                  spot you would like to meet, send us an e-mail.

                                         Dinner at IHOP
                             Dinner after the September 9, 2007 show

                  Viewers and listeners, give us your feedback.

                  E-mail us your feedback or questions. We will try to respond
                  to you in e-mail or on the air. Due to our now international
                  audience, we're sometimes not able to respond to all e-mails.
                  All e-mails to us are read by the hosts and crew.

                  ACA members, want to help?

                  The Atheist Experience can always use extra helping hands in
                  the studio. Tasks involve screening phone calls, manning the
                  communication with the host so Matt will know who the heck's
                  on the phone, running Camera 2, or just being a cheering
                  supportive studio audience member (we love those!). Talk to
                  Matt, Steve, or any ACA board member at one of our gatherings
                  if you'd like to help us on the show, and they'll give you
                  directions to the studio.

                  Still have more questions?

                  See our technical FAQ page or the ACA's atheism FAQ
                  (frequently asked questions).
                  The Atheist Experience is sponsored by
                  the Atheist Community of Austin
                  1507 W Koenig Ln., Austin, TX 78756-1415
                  Voice Mail: (512) 220-6561
                  TV show feedback: tv@atheist-community.org
                  Copyright (C) Atheist Community of Austin 2003-2016. All
                  rights reserved.
                  "Atheist Experience" is a trademark of the Atheist Community
                  of Austin.

