Chariots of Iron

Top Podcasts in 2015

December 29, 2015 |  chariotuser3  |  Comment  |  Podcast

The past year has proven to be a revitalization for the medium of podcasting as
celebrities, personalities, and companies from across the globe began to
experiment with the platform. Following the hit podcast “Serial”, a host of new
shows began to emerge. Pair these with the already established acts and you had
dozens of great shows at your disposal. Here are just a few favorites from 2015
that captivated or hooked millions of listeners.

“Serial”

It would be a disservice to not include the most popular podcast of 2015 on
this list. From the creators of This American Life, another top podcast, host
Sarah Koenig tells an entire true story over the course of a single season. The
first season of the show told the story of Hae Min Lee, a Baltimore high school
senior who disappeared and Adnan Syed, the main suspect in her disappearance.
Digging into this mystery hooked millions of listeners and retained them even
as the show has entered it’s second season.

“Stuff You Should Know”

From the crew at HowStuffWorks.com, this level of audio insight is usually left
only to the professionals. Fortunately, we have professionals, as Josh Clark
and Chuck Bryant team up to educate the masses on how many things work, while
also giving you those useful bits of trivia knowledge that go over well at
parties and family gatherings.

“The Adam Carolla Show”

From his start on the radio call-in show turned MTV hit Loveline to the hit
show that propelled Jimmy Kimmel to stardom, The Man Show, Adam Carolla has
been the host of this daily comedy and news podcast since 2009. In 2011,
Guinness named The Adam Carolla Show the record holder for the most downloaded
podcast. Check out for yourself what makes Adam and his usual lineup of
co-hosts and guests such an entertaining and engaging show to listen to.

“Radiolab”

Promoting itself as “a show about curiosity”, Radiolab is a science and
philosophical podcast that delves deep into broad and challenging subjects
while framing them in an accessible way. Jad Abumrad and Robert Krulwich bring
you the Peabody Award winning show that began as a New York radio program in
2002 but has since grown into one of the most popular podcasts out there.
Radiolab may not release new episodes as often as other shows, but there’s
quite a backlog to explore of deep, interesting discussion.

“Stuff You Missed in History Class”

Also from the HowStuffWorks.com crew, Tracy V. Wilson and Holly Frey host this
informative and entertaining look at historical fact, fiction, and everything
in between. Not only does this show touch on some of the finer points of
history that often get lost in the pomp and circumstance of larger events, but
it also finds those genuinely missing pieces of history that may have been
overlooked for some time.

This is just a small sampling of some of the great podcasts that found footing
or continued their meteoric rise in popularity over the past year. With what
we’ve seen out of 2015, it’s exciting to wonder what sort of interesting
content and innovative production we’ll see out of 2016.

Runner up and staff favorite: The Dr. Drew Podcast!

Who is Darrel Ray?

September 13, 2015 |  chariotuser3  |  Comment  |  Podcast

Born August 24, 1950, Darrel Wayne Ray is a psychologist, author, speaker and
activist for atheism. Ray founded Recovering from Religion in 2009, a self-help
organization developed to help individuals leaving religious indoctrination.

Ray was raised in Wichita, Kansas by missionary parents. There, he was a child
in the fundamentalist Christian faith, later joining the Quaker church at the
age of 29 and transitioning to Presbyterian not long thereafter. By the
mid-1980s, Ray started identifying as an atheist. He later started living
within polyamorous relationships and is a father and grandfather.

In 1972, he graduated from Friends University in Wichita. That Bachelors of
Science in Sociology and Anthropology was followed by a masters degree from
Scarritt College for Christian Workers in 1974, with a focus on church and
community. His psychology Doctor of Education was earned in 1978 at Peabody
college of Vanderbilt University.

In his work life, Ray has focused heavily on organizational culture and
clinical psychology. He has co-authored two books about team building, founded
a corporate coaching program called Teaming Up and served as the director of
The Institute for Performance Culture.

Ray’s two books about religion and secularism examine control of human thoughts
and behaviors, particularly sexuality, through religion. Those two books, The
God Virus: How Religion Affects Our Lives and Culture and Sex and God: How
Religion Distorts Sexuality use cultural and historical perspectives to explore
the subject matter. He also has a podcast about atheism and sexuality called
Secular Sexuality, which he has hosted since August 2014.

As part of his organization Recovering from Religion, Ray serves as a board
director and works to help people through science and secular-based therapies.
That is the focus of the group’s program entitled The Secular Therapy Project.

Darrel Ray is sometimes interviewed as an expert in secular psychology on
television news programs. This is the case for the ABC news program Nightline,
where Ray vocalized opinion against exorcisms and provided scientific expertise
and personal views about mental illnesses sometimes appearing like possession.

As a researcher, Ray has worked with other experts and authors on various
projects exploring human behavior and sexuality. In 1982, he worked on a study
of male juvenile offenders in the criminal justice system. That study focused
on the effects of population density on the subjects.

Another study of May 2011 explored changes in sexuality as related to departure
from secular religion. Over 14,500 subjects completed surveys and provided
details toward study conclusions. That work, entitled Sex and Secularism: What
Happens When You Leave Religion?, indicated that sexuality is not vastly
different in behavioral style after departure from religious following. But the
study did reflect that less guilt was experienced after subjects became
non-religious and sex improved in the absence of structured religion. This
study was widely criticized for its recruitment of biased participants from a
pool of readers of one science-based blog.

Five Famous American Atheists

April 16, 2015 |  chariotuser3  |  Comment  |  Podcast

The United States is one of the most religious countries in the world, with
over 80% of respondents in a recent national survey saying that they believe in
God. However, there were also a significant number of Americans, about 12%, who
identified as atheists. Here are five of the most prominent modern Americans
who openly proclaimed that they did not believe in God.

Thomas Edison

Probably the most famous inventor of all time, Thomas Edison was a
philosophical skeptic who was critical of religious belief. The creator of the
incandescent light bulb once bluntly observed, “All religion is bunk.” Edison
was especially critical of the religious education of children by churches,
which he considered to be equivalent to teaching them that superstition is
fact. He also spoke openly against the teaching of religion in the public
schools.

Pat Tillman

Pat Tilman is a true American hero whose decision to give up a lucrative career
with the National Football League in order to join the Army and fight in the
Iraq War earned him wide admiration. After Tillman was killed in action in
2004, an important detail about him surfaced – he was an atheist.
Interestingly, few biographical articles about Tillman mention that he openly
stated on numerous occasions that he did not believe in God.

Langston Hughes

Considered one of the best poets of the literary movement known as The Harlem
Renaissance, Langston Hughes was a strong critic of religion in general and
Christianity in particular. He believed that most religious people were
hypocrites and that religion itself was a force for social oppression,
especially of black people. Politically, Hughes was a communist, an ideology he
admired in part because of its commitment to atheism, denounced by Karl Marx as
“the opiate of the people.”

Ayn Rand

At the other end of the political spectrum from Hughes is Ayn Rand, the best
selling novelist and philosopher who is considered a hero to many on the
political right. What many conservatives may not know about Rand is that she
was a confirmed atheist, believing that religious belief could not hold up in
the face of logic and reason. She dismissed religion as a primitive form of
philosophy that had no place in the modern world.

Carl Sagan

In much the same way as Rand, the famous American astronomer and astrophysicist
Carl Sagan rejected religion because it wasn’t based upon logic and reason. His
scientific outlook on life compelled him to believe that religion was
incompatible with the scientific method. However, he also said that a scientist
is obligated to keep an open mind on every and any subject, so he stopped short
of claiming that he was absolutely certain that God was not real, saying, “We
would have to know a great deal more about the universe than we do now to be
sure that no God exists.” Since he considered the issue unsettled, Sagan
believed the most sensible course of action was for everyone to think for
themselves, basing one’s opinions solely upon logic, reason and the facts of
experience.

So even in a mostly religious country like the United States, there have been
numerous prominent atheists. Ironically, their atheism has not been widely
recognized, even by those who claim to be admirers of their life’s work.

Search [                    ] [Search]
Recent Posts

  • Top Podcasts in 2015
  • Who is Darrel Ray?
  • Five Famous American Atheists

Recent Comments

Archives

  • December 2015
  • September 2015
  • April 2015

Categories

  • Podcast

Meta

  • Log in
  • Entries RSS
  • Comments RSS
  • WordPress.org

(C) 2016 Chariots of Iron
Organized Themes

