Young Australian Skeptics
A sanctuary for young free-thinkers.
Menu

  • Home
  • About
  • Submissions
  • Podcasts
  • Book
  • Contact

RSS Subscribe
Categories

  • Skepticism
  • Science
  • Religion
  • Health
  • Education
  • Technology
  • Politics and Law
  • Society
  • Art and Music
  • Podcast

The Young Australian Skeptics is an organisation and group blog run by a
diverse team of young science communicators, professionals and students,
focused on the crossroads of science with critical thinking, religion,
education, politics, medicine, law, wider society and more — in essence,
scientific skepticism and its cultural impact.

Twitter

Follow @YoungAusSkeptic Follow @PseudosciPod

Podcasts

[logoPSP_][unfilter]

Support the YAS

We are supported by the Rationalist Society of Australia. [RSAlogo_LRG]

To further help with the costs of the site and enable future projects, feel
free to donate through Paypal.
PayPal — The safer, easier way to pay online. *
Home   /   Podcast
Unfiltered Thoughts: Alastair Tait on Life on Mars

Unfiltered Thoughts: Alastair Tait on Life on Mars

February 14, 2015
by Unfiltered Thoughts
Podcast

Jack is joined by Alastair Tait to chat about life on Mars and other places in
our solar system. Alastair is a PhD student at Monash University in Melbourne,
where he studies planetary geology and meteorites. You’re about to hear about
his work, actually.

Read Article →
The Pseudoscientists – Problems with Skepticism: A Discussion with Eleanor
Robertson

The Pseudoscientists – Problems with Skepticism: A Discussion with Eleanor
Robertson

February 12, 2015
by The Pseudoscientists
Podcast

Why would someone dislike the skeptical community? Jack speaks with
Sydney-​​based writer Eleanor Robertson about her misgivings with skepticism,
why we shouldn’t pin too many hopes on celebrity spokespeople, science and
ethics, and the benefits of listening to those with whom you disagree.

Read Article →
Unfiltered Thoughts: Matthew Mack on Mathematics

Unfiltered Thoughts: Matthew Mack on Mathematics

December 20, 2014
by Unfiltered Thoughts
Podcast

Jack is joined by Matthew Mack to discuss the trouble with teaching maths, the
relationship betweens maths and science, and why blockbuster movies don’t
feature mad mathematicians. Matthew is a Masters graduate in mathematics
attempting to foray into the real world. When he isn’t mentally dissecting or
marrying various concepts, he can be found playing the cello or working through
a backlog of indie games.

Read Article →
The Pseudoscientists Episode 130: Fake Snow is Offensive

The Pseudoscientists Episode 130: Fake Snow is Offensive

December 3, 2014
by The Pseudoscientists
Podcast

Sarah, Nicola and Jack dive deep into the genetics of homosexuality, why
autoimmune diseases aren’t caused by female self-​​hatred, and why young
children love to laugh at everyone else’s misfortune. Plus: a new YAS project
in the works, Australian Christmas, hail, and homosexual conversion.

Read Article →
The Pseudoscientists Episode 129: Batman Can't Get Ebola

The Pseudoscientists Episode 129: Batman Can’t Get Ebola

November 22, 2014
by The Pseudoscientists
Podcast

Jack, Joanna and Sarah make a triumphant return to the studio to delve into how
protein evolution can help save us from climate change, what the deal is with
ebola, and why mantis shrimp are the coolest animals on Earth. Plus: theses,
jobs, superhero shows, and nuclear fusion.

Read Article →
Unfiltered Thoughts: Bren Carruthers on Journalism

Unfiltered Thoughts: Bren Carruthers on Journalism

November 15, 2014
by Unfiltered Thoughts
Podcast

For the nineteenth episode of Unfiltered Thoughts, Jack sits down with Bren
Carruthers to chat about the big, bad world of journalism, touching on science,
climate change and politics.

Read Article →
Unfiltered Thoughts: Will Farr on Asteroids

Unfiltered Thoughts: Will Farr on Asteroids

August 19, 2014
by Unfiltered Thoughts
Podcast

For the eighteenth episode of Unfiltered Thoughts, Jack sits down with Will
Farr (again!) to chat about the science and science-​​fiction of asteroids.

Read Article →
The Pseudoscientists Episode 128: Symbolic Perpetual Motion

The Pseudoscientists Episode 128: Symbolic Perpetual Motion

August 14, 2014
by The Pseudoscientists
Podcast

Sarah and Jack look at the science and skeptical themes in the recent movies
“Lucy”, “Snowpiercer”, “Guardians of the Galaxy” and the James Randi
documentary “An Honest Liar” and also touch on some self-​​assembling robots
and turning brown butterflies purple.

Read Article →
1 2 … 22 Next →

Search

[Search the site     ]
Archives

[Select Month        ]

Recent Comments

  • CONGRATULATIONS on Young Australian Skeptics — Skeptical Blog
    Anthology — Now Out!
  • James McKay on Sports Superstition
  • Levi McIntyre on Brauer: Natural Quackery
  • Gregory Kramida on Has science really made the world a better place?
  • Stuart King on Vaccines, mercury and you

Friends of the YAS

  • Australian Skeptics
  • Catherine Donaldson
  • Embiggen Books
  • Faster Pussycat Productions
  • Freethought Student Alliance
  • Joel Birch
  • Kylie Sturgess
  • Sceptic School
  • Victorian Skeptics

Copyright © 2016 Young Australian Skeptics

Authors log in here

