Radio Freethinker

Vancouver's Number 1 Skeptical Podcast and Radio Show

  • Home
  • Listen Now
  • What is Skepticism
  • Meet the Cast
  • Contact Us
  • Extra Content

  • Welcome to Radio Freethinker!

    Radio Freethinker is a radio show/podcast that promotes skepticism,
    critical thinking, and secular issues.
  • Follow Us!

    [glf] [glt] [glf] [glp]
  • Categories

    Categories[Select Category     ]
  • Archives

    Archives [Select Month        ]
  • Blogs we Contribute to!

      □ And That's Science!
      □ CFI: Voices of Reason
      □ Skeptic North
      □ The Critical Inquirers
  • Listen Now

      □ Latest Show

  • [radiofreethinkers]
  • RSS Download the Podcast!

      □ RFT - Ep 323 - The 2015 Science Year in Review - Guest Edition
      □ RFT â   Ep 322 â   The 2015 Science Year in Review â   Host Edition
      □ RFT - Recast - Mental Health Edition
      □ RFT - Ep 321 â   The Abundance Paradox Edition
      □ RFT - Ep 320 - The Buyer Beware Edition
      □ RFT- ReCast - Jesus Vs Santa Edition
      □ RFT - Ep 319 â   The Zipf Law Edition
      □ RFT- ReCast - Where are all the Aliens?
      □ RFT - Ep 318 - Paris Backlash Edition
  • Recent Posts

      □ Prairie Correspondent – Good neighbours
      □ RFT Ep 257 – Sex Sells Redux Edition
      □ RFT Ep 256 – What Good is the News Edition
      □ RFT Ep 255 – Dirty Dozen Edition
      □ RFT Ep 253 – Dark Origins Edition
  • Recent Comments

      □ James Erasmus on Who Killed the Avro Arrow?
      □ Murray B on Who Killed the Avro Arrow?
      □ John on Who Killed the Avro Arrow?
      □ John on Who Killed the Avro Arrow?
      □ Moving Away From, Moving Towards . . . – Not Dead Yet Style on Keeping
        those New Year’s Resolutions
  • Re-Twitter

      □ RT @EthanClow: I'll be returning to my old show, Radio Freethinker,
        tomorrow at 3pm on @CiTRradio to discuss #nonprofits and #WW1centenary
        … 1 year ago
      □ RT @EthanClow: Looking to do some good? Donate to @CiTRradio, the great
        station that airs @citrrft Call 604-822-8648 and support local inde…
        1 year ago
      □ RT @EthanClow: Today I'll be on Radio Freethinker (@citrrft) to discuss
        #DrWho and its influence on science, society and the universe! Tune…
        2 years ago
  • 
    NetworkedBlogs
    Blog:
    Radio Freethinker
    Topics:
    skepticism, critical thinking, free inquiry
     
    Follow my blog
  • 

Prairie Correspondent – Good neighbours

Posted by Don McLenaghen on June 27, 2014

Good neighbours, we all want to be good neighbours and we want to have good
neighbours. Mostly our neighbours are the people next door, either down hallway
or down a street. Neighbours are usually close enough to know each other if not
intimately then sight wise. If the walls are thin or the windows are open
sometimes they now each other more than is comfortable. We know the comings and
goings, the different vehicles, the new siding. When the plumber comes a
calling we may not know the why but we can figure it out. The guy who parks his
truck on the lawn and the one that is down on his hands and knees pulling the
dandelions out by hand. A neighbourhood is full of all types of people.

Neighbourhoods can be welcoming places and some can be anything but. Like the
barbeque that the Smiths had and invited everyone on the south side of the
street but Hanna family. Everyone else got along as did Hanna’s and the Smiths,
until one weekend when the RV arrived, something happened nobody was sure what.
All that were invited went, they noticed the Hanna’s weren’t there, they talked
among themselves yet no one said anything to the Smiths. After all it wasn’t
their party or their yard or for that matter their food, what right did they
have to say who the Smiths could invite and who not. This slight didn’t go
unnoticed by the Hanna’s either. It was a small block and they had noticed the
people passing their yard on the way to the Smith’s. Well the Hanna’s didn’t
care because they liked the Smith’s just about a little as the Smith’s liked
them. Well truth be known after the puffing of feathers and the bravado, they
cared a great deal.

You see the two neighbours used to be friends, heck they borrowed each other’s
tools and returned them, now that’s a good neighbour.  It all started one day
when the Smith’s brought home a spanking new RV. 39 feet long with fold out
sides a magnificent RV to the Smiths but a monster to the Hanna’s. The fallout
wasn’t over jealousy the Hanna’s were glad the Smith’s had the RV they had four
small boys so they too could imagine the fun ahead for the family. What the
Hanna’s objected to was the RV had been parked in the driveway as far back as
possible and RV’s large window lined up perfectly with the Hanna’s sundeck,
patio doors and all the back yard for that matter. Now as much as one might
like the people next door there are limits. The same reason people build
fences, plant trees and build pergolas, was the same reason the Hanna’s found a
problem with the RV. They liked their privacy

When Mrs Hanna awoke the next morning and rounded the table in the kitchen she
was staring straight into the window of the RV, it was parked 6 inches from the
dividing fence. Usually Mr Hanna was a more forgiving sort but he too stared at
it eyes bulging. There was room in the driveway to pull ahead and therefore
solve the problem so what the he double l is going on, the nerve. So out they
go after cramming down their breakfast fit to be tied. They erected a makeshift
blind with wood and an old sheet blocking the RV’s view of the property. Looked
crappy but they wanted to make a point and after all what were the Smiths
thinking! It escalated from there.

And so this leads to the night of the barbecue. The Smith’s and Hanna’s never
talked and the other neighbours looked the other way. Was it the perhaps the
Hannas fault if they had of voiced their problem with the way the RV was parked
in the driveway explained the discomfort it caused, or was it perhaps the
Smiths fault if they had taken the Hanna’s right to privacy into account. They
could have hashed it out and came to an agreement that worked for both of them
.It may be …a simple conversation could have alleviated the situation that
developed.

And isn’t that the way of the world, we’re all neighbours some of us are closer
than others, and our block is the planet. The Planet Earth is our
neighbourhood. Perhaps we should make the effort to listen and talk to our
neighbours. Good neighbours, we all want to be good neighbours and we want to
have good neighbours, don’t we.

Posted in Blogs | Leave a Comment >>

RFT Ep 257 – Sex Sells Redux Edition

Posted by Don McLenaghen on June 24, 2014

Download the episode here! 

<NOTE: Due to technical issues, CiTR's pod-casting server is down. The show can still be enjoyed via the link above...sorry for the inconvenience>

male-prostitution-comic

This Week Whine – The Iraq Dilemma and Globalized Ethics

Martin-Rowson-cartoon-26.-001

This past couple of weeks has brought to light the very precarious nature of
the idea of an Iraqi nation…and it does not look good. We provide a quick
historical context for the civil war in all but name that has resurfaced in
Iraq. We also look at the UN’s Responsibility to Protect…a high point for
humanity where we no longer limit people to be citizens of a nation but
citizens of the world with rights the global community is charged to
protect. Alas, we discuss how Iraq shows the utter failure of the UN, NATO, The
US and the global community in general to actualize these rights…to ACTUALLY
protect people from military violence.

BqPhLJKCMAEo9gy

The New Prostitution Bill…oy vey

prostitution-a-smart-career-choice

In the wake of the Supreme Court striking down Canada’s prostitution law, the
Harper government has presented to parliament a replaced based on the so called
“Nordic Model”.

We review the reason the previous law was struck down and how this new law
makes matters worse for sex workers. We deconstruct Justice Minister Peter
McKay’s regressive, paternalistic sexist misogynistic law and the real reasons
Harper is introducing a law he knows will be struck down by the Supreme Court
of Canada.

Further Reading:

  • The new sex work legislation explained
  • Prostitution bill would make it illegal to buy, sell sex in public
  • My Work Should Not Cost Me My Life
  • Protection of Communities and Exploited Persons Act
  • R. v. Labaye

The Case to Legalize Brothels

Pros_Leg

In the previous section, I asserted that prostitution and more specifically
brothels were not innately harmful…well, to be a good skeptic…we take a moment
to review the evidence out there and see if the proposition – legalizing
brothels makes sex work and sex workers safer is justified or just dogmatic.

Further Reading:

  • 
  • Best little Whorehouse
  • RFT Ep 238 – New Years Eve Edition
  • Supreme Court and the sex trade

How Class Works

kos-57

Based on a presentation given by Richard Wolff, an economist who has studied
class issues for more than 40 years.

Wolff explains what class is all about and applies that understanding to the
foreclosure crisis of 2007–2011. He argues that class concerns the “way our
society splits up the output [and] leaves those who get the profits in the
position of deciding and figuring out what to do with them… We all live with
the results of what a really tiny minority in our society decides to do with
the profits everybody produces.” As you watch and listen, consider what we know
from research about disease and illness patterns among groups with lower
income, more stress, and less control of their lives. Consider how investment
decisions in neighborhoods, over transportation, school facilities, parks,
location of grocery stores, quality of affordable housing, etc. influenced by
powerful interests, affect the quality of life for large segments of the
population.

feudalism-then-and-now

This was produced by the National Association of County and City Public Health
Officials (NACCHO) as a part of their Roots of Health Inequality Project. The
project is a web-based course for the public health workforce and “How Class
Works” is one section of the course.

Further Reading:

  • How Class Works — Richard Wolff Examines Class
  • The Roots of Health Inequity
  • Professor Richard Wolff

 

Posted in Show notes | Tagged: Brothel, christian morality, class, Harper
government, inequality, Iraq, Peter McKay, Prostitution, responsibility to
protect, Sex work, sex workers, street walker, Supreme Court, UN, USA, whore
house | Leave a Comment >>

RFT Ep 256 – What Good is the News Edition

Posted by Don McLenaghen on June 17, 2014

Download the episode here! 

MAC944.pvw

Truth about Canada

Free trade - 5

Mel Hurtig is probably not a name most of us know and yet we should. Mel made
good money in the 80 by selling some books. He took that windfall and was the
driving force behind the Canadian Encyclopedia…the only encyclopedia made by
Canadians.

Mel is a fervent nationalist and has talked for years about the erosion of both
Canadian identity as well as Canadian sovereignty.

In 2008 he wrote the book “The Truth About Canada”, which is about how Canada
has changed, very much for the worse, in the last twenty years. As a result of
these profound (often hidden) changes, we are no longer the people we think we
are.

From the book…To take one example, the Canadian media usually leaves us with
the impression that Canadians are really heavily taxed. Yes, compared to the
U.S.A., the usual point of comparison. No, compared to other countries with our
standard of living, other OECD countries, for example; there we come in 23rd on
the high-tax scale.

How do we rank in the world in voter turnout? Try 109th. Number of physicians
per 100,000 population? Try 54th. Our rank in reducing pollution? 126th out of
146 countries.

Mel states that he wrote the book because we can’t do anything to fix the
direction we’re drifting in unless we recognize it — and recognize The Truth
About Canada.

Now this book was published in 2008 as I said but I came across an interview he
did on TVO and he makes some predictions about Canada…now, 8 years on, it is
surprising how these predictions fared.

Further Reading:

  • Mel Hurtig Reveals Some Truths About Canada
  • Mel Hurtig
  • The Truth About Canada: Some Important, Some Astonishing, and Some Truly
    Appalling Things All Canadians Should Know About Their Country
  • The Canadian Encyclopedia
  • CCPA – Truths about Canada

What Good is the News

Fox-News-Uninformed

I have a question for you…does the News Do Us Any Good? Alain de Botton

Given the current events in Ukraine, the way that news is reported (on all
sides, sometimes opposing and sometimes oversimplified) is both interesting and
unsettling.

Well Alain De Botton takes a philosopher’s approach to the general issue of the
consumerisation of the news – making a plea for the media to treat us all more
as grownups, and for us as consumers to be more objective and challenging.

Great advice – but is it ever possible?

Alain de Botton asks: “What is it that we’re really looking for when we watch
or read the news – and is it doing us any good?”

Over the last decade the amount of information available to us has exploded.
Stories, reports, updates and media of all sorts come at us from every angle,
every day.

And yet we still have a significant relationship with “The News” – seeking it
out, and investing it with an importance and authority in our lives, despite
the fact that it often leaves us feeling confused and powerless.

Listen as de Botton turns his philosophical lens on The News, to examines the
peculiar position it holds in our lives – and offers counsel on the precautions
we should take before venturing anywhere near it and the “noise” it generates.

Further Reading:

  • The News: A User’s Manual
  • Does the News Do Us Any Good?

I bet you’re a mutant

lactose intol cow50

How many of you have gone out and spent too much money to watch X-Men: days of
future past?
I bet a number of you wish you were mutants with special powers…well it may
surprise you that many of you ARE mutants and that power may have help your
kind rule the world.

Further Reading:

  • Lactase persistence
  • The Most Spectacular Mutation in Recent Human History
  • The milk revolution

 

Posted in Blogs | Leave a Comment >>

RFT Ep 255 – Dirty Dozen Edition

Posted by Don McLenaghen on June 13, 2014

Download the episode here! 

cartoon

The dirty dozen and misreporting toxic food

complimentary-medicine-cartoon

A loyal listener told me that they regretfully were switching to organic
apples. “Why?” I asked. They said they read on the CBC website about the Dirty
Dozen…the 12 most toxic laden fruits and veggies in our supermarkets.

I discovered the Dirty Dozen is published by the Environmental Working Group
(EWG)…I investigated their claims, evaluated their data (not really theirs but
the USDA) and after a little more research proclaimed the story rubbish.

food-drink-organic_foods-organics-health_foods-pesticides-no_pesticides-mban1414l

It got worse though, first because it was such a poor example of “journalism”
by the CBC…it took be a few minutes to raise some red-flags about the story and
an hour or 3 to complete debunk it…and yet the CBC not only reported
uncritically but expanded by include and even worse study.

Secondly, i seem to have my loyal listeners that they did not seem to know how
to evaluate this story. So listen to see both why the dirty in the Dirty Dozen
applies to the EWG more than the flora and how you too can debunk a story like
this.

Further Reading:

  • Acceptable daily intake
  • USDA – Pesticide Data Program 
  • Apples top list for pesticide contamination in 2014
  • How Wrong Is The Latest Dirty Dozen List?
  • Going organic for one week cuts pesticide exposure: study
  • Reference dose
  • Pesticide Exposure in Children

Blinded by Science

Our semi-regular segment about cool science stories…this week:

Blinded by Science – Mice gotta run

60-6067-U3ID100Z

Ever wonder why a mouse will run in those little wheels? Do they like it, are
they bored or is it a sign of psychosis? Well, someone did some finally set out
to answer that question…list to find out why and how snails came in second
place in the wheelly marathon.

Further Reading:

  •  Wild Mice like Running Wheels
  • Will Wild Mice Use Running Wheels?
  • Even in the Wild, Mice Run on Wheels

Blinded by Science –  The Beast asteroid

mban1026l

This past weekend a continent-killing asteroid whizzed by the earth, what makes
this one so scaring is we did not know it was coming until April this year. We
talk about the asteroid and the need to increase spending in locating
near-earth object…especially those that might want to hit the planet .

Further Reading:

  •  Asteroid dubbed ‘The Beast’ set to fly past Earth on Sunday
  • Near-Earth Asteroid Tracking

Blinded by Science – DNA expands

140507132129-large

DNA is the foundation of all life on earth…as far as we know the universe.
Well, scientist have improved on the (at least) billions year old formula. No
longer are we limited to the traditional two base pairs…they have added
another. Why? How? Listen and find out.

Further Reading:

  • Scientists create first living organism that transmits added letters in DNA
    ‘alphabet’
  • Expanding the alphabet of life with artificial DNA

Prairie Correspondent – Reflections on the phrase “thank god”

Funniest_Memes_thank-god-i-brought-my-umbrella-wouldn-t-want_11465
This week, our correspondent reflect on “thank god” how we use it, abuse it and
well, just sometimes get it wrong.
Web Wisdom – How to choose your news

NewsAlert
There is a lot of  “news” on the internet…most of crap. Listen in on a Ted-Ed
talk that help show you how to separate the chaff from the wheat.

D-Day…meaning to Canada and the context of controversy

D-Day
D-Day is 70 years old. One of the most pivotal moments in western history. It
is also a story of coming of age for Canada as one of the three nations (along
side the US and UK) to be given the task of taking a beach (Juno)…we, not only
succeeded but was perhaps the most successful under some of the hardest
resistance of any of the landing forces.
Canada-landings June6th
I also talk about how heartless and stinging the Harper Government has been in
only providing about 40% of the funds need for our dwindling number of vets
(most 90 and up) participate in this 70th anniversary. Or it started out that
way, but i go where the evidence leads me, and as it turns out (from my
research, please correct me if i have it wrong)…Canada seems to be the only
nation subsidizing our vets at all.
Tuesday, February 4, 2014
I started out being negative because of the large amount of bad press this
issue has received, which now seems unwarranted. This lead to more important
question…why the anger?
As it turns out, context is everything. Listen and find out why people are so
angry over what seems to be a generous government.
Further Reading:
D-Day and the Battle of Normandy
Vet says feds cheap on D-Day trip
D-Day 70th anniversary: World leaders pay tribute to veterans
World War II vets in their 90s furious after France ‘breaks its promise’ to fly
them to Normandy to celebrate 70th anniversary of D-Day
A fatal wait: Veterans languish and die on a VA hospital’s secret list
Veteran’s wife wants Julian Fantino to give support to spouses
Julian Fantino told ‘we’re nothing to you’

Posted in Show notes | Tagged: asteroid, bad journolism, bad science, Blinded
by Science, context, continent-killer, D-Day, d5SICS, dirty dozen, DNA, dNaM,
Environmental Working Group, EWG, Juno beach, mice, near-earth object, News,
Prairie Correspondent, running wheel, TED-Ed, thank god, Toxic Food, toxins,
USDA, Web Wisdom | 1 Comment >>

RFT Ep 253 – Dark Origins Edition

Posted by Don McLenaghen on June 12, 2014

Download the episode here! 

littlered

Evidence Based Medicine

acupucture_chinese_medicine_cartoon

In a double dose of this weeks whine, we start off talking about how
alt-med…the practitioners of ‘woo’ medicine have coopted the term evidence
based medicine. Find out how they have done, why its important and what we can
do about it.

Further Reading:

  •  Does integrated health have a place in Canadian medicine?
  • Evidence-Based Complementary and Alternative Medicine (just proves, just
    because it’s in a “journal” does not make it science)
  • The difference between science-based medicine and CAM
  • Is Evidence-based Medicine Sufficient For Complementary And Alternative
    Medicine Research? (and even trusted site can have bull)
  • CBC’s The Current: Does “integrated health” have a place in Canadian
    medicine?

A child’s capacity to consent

bg050313dAPR20130503034523

In a recent decision by the Child Protection Agency in Ontario, a 10 year old
girl have been given the right to refuse life saving treatment.

We discuss what is wrong (as it if was not obvious) why this responsibility
should not be given to a child…hell, she can’t even buy smokes or a beer but
make critical medical decisions…that’s okay.

We also provide the context as to why such a terrible decision seems to be the
right thing to do, no make who wrong it truly is.

Further Reading:

  • Makayla Sault will not be apprehended by Children’s Aid
  • Consent and Capacity Board
  • First Nations girl chooses traditional medicine over chemo
  • A history of residential schools in Canada
  • Sixties Scoop

Prairie Correspondent Talks Language, Bias and Politics

cartoon220309_152763a

When we elect an official…be they an MP or school trusty, what responsibility
to they have to be “respectable”…how much should they suppress personal
opinions…what right does the public/electorate have to dictate their lives and
behaviors.

Listen and find out how a small local issue in Brandon can shed light on our
society at large.

Bright Side

This semi-regular segment was inspired by a conversation i had with a friend of
mine lately.

We talked for a couple of hours about a number of things.I could not help but
notice that every time I had a new conversation bit, it was always a
downer…some new scandal here…global catastrophe there…people being bad to other
people…another study that is just propaganda…nothing up.

Anyway, it has set me on a quest to find some positive happy stories. So, this
week:

Bright Side – New Prize to Save the World

seaclock
 

300 hundred years ago the UK government offered a huge prize, the Longitude
Prize,  to anyone who could solve the driving problem of the age…how to
determine a ships longitude (hey, who are we to judge).

2009-04-25-save-the-world-global-warming-600

In the spirit of the first prize , the UK government is setting up the the
Longitude Prize 2, which will offer 10 million pound to whom ever can solve
today’s most pressing problem…what is it? Well, this is the cool part, they are
leaving it up to vote of UK residence.

save the environment

Which problem is more pressing? Food shortage, clean water, mobility and
paralysis, independence and dementia, superbugs and the end of antibiotics or a
green plane (yes, a green plane, have no idea why its on the list but it is).

images (5)

 

Old School Tricorder

Also related, we discuss the X-Prize to develop the first Tricorder…yes, like
in Star Trek…how cool is that? There is also a 20 million dollar prize to land
a rover on the moon…

medical-tricorder-on-original-archive

Tricorder the Next Generation

Further Reading:

  • Longitude prize
  • Wikipedia – 2014 Longitude Prize
  • Longitude Prize 2014
  • Star Trek tricorder inspires new X Prize contest
  • Tricorder X Prize – Canada’s hope
  • Tricorder X Prize
  • X Prize Foundation
  • Google Lunar X PRIZE
  • Hockey puck may visit moon in X Prize plan

Web Wisdom

A semi-regular segment where i share with you my loyal listeners shyte I found
on the internet just too interesting to keep to myself.

Web Wisdom – Dark Origins of Fairy-tales and Nursery Rhymes

mermaid
We all know about Sleeping Beauty…Cinderella…how often as kids did we sing
Three Blind Mice or Humpty Dumpty?  Did you know the real story behind these
kid classics? Well, be forewarned, once you discover their dark origins you may
never be the same again.

Posted in Show notes | Tagged: Bias, Bright Side, capacity, Child Protection
Agency, consent, Dark Origin, Evidence Based Medicine, Fairy-tales, language,
Longitude Prize 2, Nursery Rhymes, Politics, Prairie Correspondent, Web Wisdom
| Leave a Comment >>

RFT Ep 254 – No Bananas Edition

Posted by Don McLenaghen on May 27, 2014

Download the episode here! 

media-consolidation-cartoon

Too big to jail

GM Fine

In the wake of revelations the GM executive knowing allowed a car to go into
production with a defect that would kill people…and no one charged? Well, there
seems to be two legal system, one for you and me and one for corporations (and
the rich). We get put into jail, they get a fine and have go back to doing what
they do.

20140410_GM_PARTS_recall

<note: at the end of this segment I confused two issues, one the call to arms
is a thing in the USA…check it out here.

And my Canadian call to arms was actually meant for the “media consolodation”
segments, you can be active here.>

Further Reading:

  • GM earnings down 22% for 2013, but profit-sharing up to $7,500
  • GM to Pay Record $35 Million Fine Over Ignition Switch Recalls
  • Barclays profits rise to £5.2bn in 2013
  • JPMorgan earns $5.3 billion despite legal woes
  • JPMorgan Chase – 2013_settlement
  • Libor – what is it and why does it matter?
  • Libor scandal – Fines for manipulation
  • Lawyer Seeks to Reopen Suit Central to GM Ignition-Switch Recall
  • Too big to fail
  • Too Big to Jail? Credit Suisse Bank Pleads Guilty to Decades of Tax
    Evasion, But Execs Avoid Prison
  • Glenn Greenwald on Occupy Wall Street, Banks Too Big to Jail and the Attack
    on WikiLeaks
  • How banks became too big to fail/jail
  • Not too big to jail?
  • Gangster Bankers: Too Big to Jail – How HSBC hooked up with drug
    traffickers and terrorists. And got away with it
  • Move to amend
  • Corporations are not people
  • First Jail Term Sentence under Canada’s Foreign Corruption Legislation
  • Lisa Raitt wants to know what GM Canada knew about recalls
  • GM Recall
  • More than 13 deaths in recalled GM cars ‘likely’

Neighborhoods

really-bad-neighbors

Thoughts about being neighborly in a global community from a Prairie
Correspondent.

 

UnFair Election Law

Fair Elections Dragon

Just days away for become the law of the land, we look and what was change and
what we lost.

Further Reading:

  • The Fair Elections Act passes the House
  • Fair Elections Act passes third reading, expected to become law by June
  • Controversial Fair Elections Act pushed through parliament by Conservative
    government
  • New poll shows majority oppose key sections of the Unfair Elections Act
  • James Rajotte – May 7, 2014 Letter to Constituents
  • Everything you need to know about the Fair Elections Act
  • Canada Elections Act
  • Fair Elections Act – Third reading version
  • Motion to amend Fair Elections Act
  • Senate recommendations on the Fair Elections Act
  • Fair Elections act – First Reading
  • Open Parliament – Bill C-13
  • Senate panel to push for changes to proposed fair elections act
  • Fair Elections Act amendments pass
  • Canadian Election Laws & Policies
  • Elections Canada commissioner calls for more powers
  • Commissioner of Canada Elections – 2013 report
  • Parliament of Canada – The Canadian Electoral System
  • Manitoba – The Elections Act
  • Opening Remarks by Paul G. Thomas at House of Commons Standing Committee on
    Procedure and House of Affairs on Bill CF23 – 2014.05.31

Media consolidation

08rp01_1

Canada has the highest levels of media concentration in the world, we also have
the most vertically integrated media in the world. We look at how this harms
society and what we can do the fix it!

Note that Corus is controlled by Shaw, so Shaw really has a 32.3% share. Giving
the Big 3, a 75% share. Source CRTC

Note that Corus is controlled by Shaw, so Shaw really has a 32.3% share.
Giving the Big 3, a 89% share.
Source CRTC

Further Reading:

  • Diversity of media ownership literally non-existent in Canada
  • Canadian Media Concentration Research (CMCR) project
  • Concentration Of Media Ownership In Canada Worst In G8 For TV Industry
  • Media ownership in Canada
  • Herfindahl index
  • Growth and Concentration in the French-language Network Media Economy in
    Canada, 2000-2012
  • Ask your MP to commit to making our national public broadcaster strong
    again
  • Friends of Canadian Broadcasting
  • WFF 2013: What media consolidation means for Canadian film
  • Stop Bell’s Takeover

And what one media source was reporting on this? You guessed it the CBC

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g80A2_WSraY

Justin and the Pope

MAC2521sq-770x785
Justin Trudeau exercises dictatorial powers to deny an anti-abortion candidate
from running as a liberal, he then get threatened with excommunication for his
“pro-choice” views…so, we are left wondering is religious people should be
banned from public office?
Friday, May 23, 2014
Further Reading:

  • Liberal MP apologizes to Trudeau for abortion comments
  • Justin Trudeau’s abortion stance leaves Liberal ranks in confusion
  • Justin Trudeau and abortion
  • The Backbench Spring: Justin Trudeau, democracy and abortion
  • No anti-abortion candidates allowed to run for NDP
  • Justin Trudeau, abortion and votes of conscience
  • Free votes in the House of Commons: a problematic reform
  • Open letter to Justin Trudeau from Archbishop of Toronto
  • Trudeau defends his abortion stance, cites father’s protection of rights
  • Trudeau defends abortion stance amid sharp Catholic criticism
  • Justin Trudeau’s pro-choice stand earns cardinal’s rebuke
  • Archbishop unhappy with Trudeau’s pro-choice directive
  • Trudeau Liberals say they will not change abortion position despite
    intervention from Catholic archbishop
  • Ottawa archbishop on Trudeau
  • Justin Trudeau’s abortion policy will ‘definitely’ hurt Liberals
  • A case for Trudeau’s excommunication

“Yes, We have no more bananas”

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HygopC4S5W0
It is likely that with a decade our beloved proof of god, the Cavendish banana
will be on the verge of extinction…how did it happen and what can be done about
it? Plus, why doesn’t banana pudding taste like bananas?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LVUcz6wPrCs
Further Reading:

  • Banana equivalent dose
  • Yes, We Will Have No Bananas
  • Growing Controversy Over GMO Bananas in Uganda
  • Can This Fruit Be Saved?
  • The Terrifying Truth About Bananas
  • History of the Banana: 1800 to Present
  • Banana: R.I.P. – They’re in trouble. Can biotechnology save the fruit?
  • Cavendish banana
  • What are East African Highland Banana’s (EAHBs) and why are they important
    for food security?
  • Bananas
  • Gros Michel banana
  • Yes, We Have No Bananas: Meet the fungus that could wipe out the banana
    industry
  • Good Eats – Yes We Have No Banana Pudding

And for those who where wondering about my reference to bananas as a proof of
god…check this out:

 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YfucpGCm5hY

Posted in Show notes | Tagged: Abortion, Banana, Bananas, Bell, Big Agri,
Catholicism, Cavendish, corporate agenda, Corporatocracy, criminal, democracy,
dictatorship, extinction, fair elections act, GM, gmo, Gros Michel, Harper
government, HSBC, injustice, JPMorgan Chase & Co, Justin Trudeau, legal system,
media bias, media concentration, media consolidation, neighbors, Panama disease
, politicians, pro-choice, Rogers, Shaw, Telus. vertical integration, too big
to fail, Too big to jail, Unfair elections act | Leave a Comment >>

RFT Classics – Best of the 240s

Posted by Don McLenaghen on May 13, 2014

Download the episode here!

editorial-cartoon-april-11-2014

Killing the CBC:

10177345_10203237335549965_555827627886304716_n

As ye sow, so shall ye reap…can also be stated, as ye fast, so shall ye
whither, and whither the CBC has. Facing an $100 million budget short
fall…thanks to Harper, losing hockey and other factors…the CBC is cutting staff
by over 650.

Polling shows the CBC is the most trusted media source in the country, more
three-quarters think the government should fund the CBC at a sufficient
level…most of those think funding needs to increased.

The Harper government has regularly and consistently slashed the CBC grant
budget after budget while spending  the entire CBC budget on a single F-35
jet…or overpriced frigates. What money they are giving, they think would be
better spent by just giving it to private media companies…here’s how that would
turn out…

Why are we not moving to a BBC style of funding…create a strong, stable and
independent broadcaster, whose sole interest to provide the best of Canada.

Further Reading:

  • 657 jobs cut at cash-strapped CBC
  • Canada Can’t Afford to Cut Funding From the CBC
  • Canada’s Full F-35 Cost Could Climb To $71 Billion – DND Report
  • Canadians views about the CBC
  • CBC Mandate
  • CBC to cut 657 jobs, will no longer compete for professional sports rights
  • Charting CBC cuts isn’t pretty
  • In defense of public broadcasting – Mark Damazer, former BBC boss
  • Independent review on F-35s says fighter jets could cost $20-million more
    per plane
  • Project Summary – Friends of Canadian Broadcasting
  • Starving CBC to death
  • Titanic Blunder
  • Wiki – Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
  • Wiki – Television licence
  • Wiki – Television licensing in the United Kingdom

CBC Update

screen_shot_2014-04-11_at_12.06.11_pm

In the wake of the pending cuts to the CBC, three prominent CBC hosts have
decided to leave the CBC both to help protect new talent and as a sign of
protest of the defunding of the CBC.

Listen to Linden MacIntyre explain why he is leaving.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UUXygVR420s

Find out more:

  • Linden MacIntyre, CBC Veteran, Retires To Save Jobs For Young Journalists
  • Alison Smith and Linden MacIntyre leaving CBC

The birth of Canadian Citizenship

6a0148c698a0c8970c0148c7adb388970c

In the wake of the debate of the soon to be release reform of the Canadian
Citizenship act, we take  nostalgic look back and how and when a Canadian
actually became a Canadian Citizen…you would be surprised.

Find out more:

  • Canadian citizenship rules face broad reform in 2014
  • Forging Our Legacy: Canadian Citizenship and Immigration, 1900–1977
  • 1947: The first officially Canadian citizens
  • Canadian Citizenship Act 1946
  • Statute of Westminster 1931
  • Immigration Acts (1866 – 2001)
  • History of Canadian nationality law
  • The act that made us Canadian

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GDCrGjH9JTs

What’s Your Sign – The evolution of astrology

myths-legends-astrology-astrologists-zodiac_sign-horoscope-spiritual_belief-gra110407l

In the wake of the controversy, in the skeptic community, about MacMillan Space
Center event regarding Astrology, we take a quick look at astrology and how it
evolved into the real science astronomy.

Find out more:

  • Wiki – Astrology
  • Astrology and Horoscopes Debunked
  • Bad Astronomy – Astrology
     
  • Astrology: Is it scientific?
  • Astrolink
  • Jaymie Matthews

Posted in Best of RFT | Tagged: astrology, Canadian Citizenship, CBC, Harper,
Linden McIntyre | Leave a Comment >>

RFT Ep 252 – The GMO and You Edition

Posted by Don McLenaghen on May 10, 2014

Download the episode here! 

1508056_10152429026294181_1834661939480497759_n

Prairie report – The price of dignity?

eighth-street-bridge-brandon

A special report from the Prairies on poverty – How kicking out a homeless man
from a grocery store reflects on the deficiencies of our society.

Further Reading:

  •  Brandon Homelessness
  • The cold and the cold, hard truth
  • The State of Homelessness in Canada 2013
  • 30,000 Canadians are homeless every night
  • Homelessness in Canada
  • Homelessness in Winnipeg

Non-English signs

Crest-sign-Photo-courtesy-of-Twitter

Recent debate about a Chinese only sign in Richmond leads to thought about what
multiculturalism ultimately means.

Further Reading:

  • Chinese-only sign stirs language controversy in Richmond, B.C.
  • Richmond residents outraged because they can’t read Chinese signs
  • SUCCESS admits mistake in posting Chinese-only signs

Temporary foreign workers

MAY3389-1024x695

A 40yr old program gone off the rails under Harper’s watch…how did it happen?

Further Reading:

  • Temporary Foreign Worker Program for fast-food sector suspended by Ottawa
  • Temporary foreign workers being approved too easily, expert warns
  • Map companies hiring temporary foreign workers
  • Temporary Foreign Worker Program faces renewed call for audit
  • Temporary Foreign Workers In Canada: Are They Really Filling Labour
    Shortages?
  • Temporary Foreign Workers Program Moratorium Issued, Food Services Sector’s
    Access Suspended
  • The long list of Canadian firms that have sought temporary foreign workers
  • Which companies are authorized to use temporary foreign workers? View the
    entire list

Chernobyl at 28

WCMDEV_154479_chernobyl-exclusion-zone-map

28yrs later, life has not only survived at Chernobyl but is flourishing.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dK99dvJO5PY

Further Reading:

  • What Happens When Wildlife Reclaims Chernobyl?
  • Some birds adapt to Chernobyl’s radiation
  • Wildlife thriving after nuclear disaster? Radiation from Chernobyl and
    Fukushima nuclear accidents not as harmful to wildlife as feared
  • Birds near Chernobyl have adapted to low-level radiation
  • Radioactive Wolves Of Chernobyl
  • Gerd Ludwig’s Long Look at the Chernobyl Disaster
  • How Many Cancers Did Chernobyl Really Cause?—Updated Version
  • Chernobyl disaster
  • Chernobyl’s Half Lives
  • Deaths per terawatt hour.
  • Radiation damage at the root of Chernobyl’s ecosystems

GMOs and you

cartoon_gmo_approve
After tens of thousands of years of modifying organisms, what does GMO mean
now? And the most counter-intuitive argument for GMO labeling.
Further Reading:

  • Top 5 Reasons Why You Sound Crazy When You Denounce GMOs
  • Is the Outrage Over GMO Overblown?
  • Why GMOs Matter
  • Massive Review Reveals Consensus on GMO Safety
  • The bad science checklist of GMO opponents
  • Scientific American comes out in favor of GMOs, and I agree

Posted in Blogs, Show notes | Tagged: anti-GMO, Brandon, Capitalism, Chernobyl,
Chinese signs, Fukushima, Genetically Modified organism, gmo, Harper,
Homelessness, inequality, labor, labour, language police, multiculturalism,
nuclear disaster, Poverty, Radiation, Temporary foreign workers | 1 Comment >>

RFT Ep 251 – The Sector Edition

Posted by Don McLenaghen on May 1, 2014

Download the episode here! 

WaldenU_2012_SCIR_Nonprofit_Web

NGOs, Non-Profits, Charities…what are they and what are they good for?

Bloomerang IG1C

What is the difference between a NGO…a Non-Profit and how do they relate to
charities. We discuss how these terms are defined and what regulation governs
their operation.

 

Further Reading:

  • What we can learn from one of the worst charities in the world
  • Charities & Nonprofit Organizations
  • Charitable giving by Canadians
  • TED Talk – The way we think about charity is dead wrong
  • Study: Donors Want Workplace Giving Accountability
  • Canada’s charities deserve better
  • Non-profit organization
  • Non-governmental organization
  • Charitable organizations in Canada

The Sector

10176017_531451620304677_5913248704491944653_n

Our irregular regular Ethan Clow joins us as he discusses his new project – The
Sector. The Sector is a radio show and podcast dedicated to discussion of
non-profits, social justice, activism and everything in between.

Further Reading:

  • The Sector Podcast

 

Posted in Show notes | Tagged: charity, fund-raising, NGO, Non-governmental
organization, Non-profit organization, NPO, The Sector | 1 Comment >>

RFT Ep 250 – Landmark 250th Edition

Posted by Don McLenaghen on April 24, 2014

Download the episode here! 

web-monedcar03col1

Whine of the Week  : Senate push back

web-monedcar21col1

The senate has reviewed the Fair Election Acts and has recommended some
changes. When I first read the headlines about this, I thought finally some
sanity. They were “Senate pushes back on Fair Elections Act”, “Senators seek
major changes to election bill”, etc. However, when I read into it, it was
pretty much weak tea. That said, there were some improvements. So, we go over
the changes and how they fail to deal with the fundamental problems of the act.

There was another stink that arose from the Senate Committee and that was
Senator Linda Frum…who actually said that greater voter turn-out was a conflict
of interest for Elections Canada…What the feck!? We discuss and debunk what she
said.

 

Take Action – Stand up for Canadian democracy

Further Reading:

  • You will be shocked(!) to see who is on Stephen Harper’s full ‘enemy’ list
  • Are you on Harper’s Enemy List?
  • The snob factor in the Harper universe
  • The Fair Elections Act is ever so telling
  • Senate pushes back on Fair Elections Act
  • Senate panel to push for changes to proposed fair elections act
  • Self incrimination
  • Canadian Common Law – Cases – R. v. Hawkins and Wells [1843]
  • Senators seek major changes to election bill
  • Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs – Bill C-23
    Fair Elections Act
  • Senate panel sets up confrontation with Harper on Elections Act
  • Elections Act changes drawing scrutiny from Conservatives
  • Elections Canada has a conflict of interest
  • Elections Canada in conflict with itself: Frum
  • Senator Linda Frum and the Elections Canada Twitter frenzy

Landmark 250^th

080521-145844-604007

In commemoration of our landmark episode we have visits from from past hosts
Chloe, Daniel and Rob as well as a letter from Jenna.

Radio Free Thinker would like to thank you our values listeners and dare i say
fans for all your support over the years.

And allow me to thank Elan, Ethan, Rob, Daniel, Jenna, Chloe and everyone else
who has help me make this show the success it has become. Thanks you!

Back to the Beginning

As a special treat, we rebroadcast our very first episode of Radio Free Thinker
first aired March 24th, 2009. How time has flown.

 

Posted in Show notes | Tagged: 250th Episode, fair elections act, Landmark,
Linda Frum | Leave a Comment >>

<< Previous Entries
 
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. | The Andreas09 Theme.
Follow

Follow “Radio Freethinker”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 499 other followers

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[b]
