[sftp-logo-]
Menu

  • Episodes
  • Stations
  • About
  • News
  • Bookshelf
  • Donate
  •  

[scream-cov]
This Week:

Scream

Scream

This week we're talking about fear: how it works, what it does to our bodies
and brains, and why we sometimes seek it out. We'll spend the hour with Margee
Kerr – a sociologist, fear researcher, and diehard haunted house fan – talking
about her new book "Scream: Chilling Adventures in the Science of Fear". Read
More/Download

Subscribe

Automatically get new episodes delivered straight to your computer or device as
soon as they're available.

  • RSS
  • iTunes
  • SoundCloud

[heart-head]

Help Support Science for the People

Science for the People is 100% listener supported. Help us keep the show going
(and ad-free), and access bonus content and monthly live video hangouts!

I Want To Help, Tell Me More!

Member of the Skepchick Network

[skepchick-]

Science for the People is a proud member of the Skepchick Network, a collection
of blogs focused on science and critical thinking. Visit Skepchick

[skepchick-]

Recent Episodes

[good-think]

Good Thinking

This week, we're trying to better understand our human brain, it's quirky ways
and unexpected processes, so we can use it better in daily life. We'll speak
with Guy Harrison, author of... Read More

January 15, 2016

[contracept]

Contraception

This week we're taking a closer look at our current – and potential future –
contraceptive methods. We'll speak with Beth Sundstrom and Andrea DeMaria,
Co-Directors of the Women's Health Research Team... Read More

January 08, 2016

[wonderland]

Science In Wonderland

This week, we're learning about imaginative ways to teach science to children,
and how to use science as a tool for parenting. We'll hear about fanciful tales
written to explain scientific concepts,... Read More

January 01, 2016

Visit The Episode Archive

Creative Commons LicenseScience for the People is licensed under a Creative
Commons Attribution - NonCommercial - NoDerivs 3.0 Unported License.
  
