Skip to content
cropped-screen-shot-2012-04-24-at-8-34-23-pm

 

Main navigation

Menu

  • Home
  • All Posts
  • Books
  • Podcast
  • Transcripts
  • Merch
  • About/Contact

YANSS 067 – The Fallacy Fallacy

1000words  
Read More

If you have ever shared an opinion on the internet, you have probably been in
an internet argument, and if you have been in enough internet arguments you
have likely been called out for committing a logical fallacy, and if you’ve
been called out on enough logical fallacies in enough internet arguments you
may have spent some time learning how logical fallacies work, and if you have
been in enough internet arguments after having learned how logical fallacies
work then you have likely committed the fallacy fallacy.

Continue reading →
 
January 22, 2016 Podcasts

YANSS 066 – How to become better at smelling and avoiding the many varieties
of bullshit

BlurBull  
Read More

How strong is your bullshit detector? And what exactly IS the scientific
definition of bullshit?

In this episode we explore both of those concepts as well as what makes a
person susceptible to bullshit, how to identify and defend against it, and what
kind of people are the most and least likely to be bowled over by bullshit
artists and other merchants of feel-good woo.

Continue reading →
January 2, 2016 Podcasts

YANSS 065 – Survivorship Bias (rebroadcast)

CarryTheOne  
Read More

The problem with sorting out failures and successes is that failures are often
muted, destroyed, or somehow removed from sight while successes are left
behind, weighting your decisions and perceptions, tilting your view of the
world.

That means to be successful you must learn how to seek out what is missing. You
must learn what not to do. Unfortunately, survivorship bias stands between you
and the epiphanies you seek.

To learn how to combat this pernicious bias, we explore the story of Abraham
Wald and the Department of War Math founded during World War II.

Continue reading →
January 2, 2016 Podcasts

YANSS 064 – Monkey Marketplace (rebroadcast)

MonkeyBanker  
Read More

Our guest in this episode of the You Are Not So Smart Podcast is psychologist
Laurie Santos who heads the Comparative Cognition Laboratory at Yale
University. In that lab, she and her colleagues are exploring the fact that
when two species share a relative on the evolutionary family tree, not only do
they share similar physical features, but they also share similar behaviors.
Psychologists and other scientists have used animals to study humans for a very
long time, but Santos and her colleagues have taken it a step further by
choosing to focus on a closer relation, the capuchin monkey; that way they
could investigate subtler, more complex aspects of human decision making – like
cognitive biases.

Continue reading →
January 2, 2016 Podcasts

YANSS 063 – How search engines make us feel smarter than we really are

1509851_10151965594172739_1451801489_n  
Read More

You’ve likely wondered if the internet is having a negative effect on your
brain. Perhaps you’ve thought this after realizing the world wide web now
serves as a trusty resource when gaps in your knowledge appear, and over time
it, you’ve thought, maybe it might be making you less knowledgeable overall
because you habitually head to Google if you don’t know the answers to
something, search, click, read a few lines, and then promptly forget the
factoid until the next time you need it.

Continue reading →
November 25, 2015 Podcasts

YANSS 062 – Why you often believe people who see the world differently
are wrong

Consciousness  
Read More

In psychology they call thinking that you see the world as it truly is, free
from bias or the limitations of your senses, naive realism.

According to our guest in this episode, famed psychologist Lee Ross, naive
realism also leads you to believe you arrived at your opinions, political or
otherwise, after careful, rational analysis through unmediated thoughts and
perceptions. In other words, you think you have been mainlining pure reality
for years, and like Gandalf studying ancient texts, your intense study of the
bare facts is what has naturally led to your conclusions.

Continue reading →
November 9, 2015 Podcasts

YANSS 061: How to willfully alter your brain’s ability to willfully alter your
brain’s abilities

brainstatic  
Read More

In a way, you can simply will yourself into a new physical form – that is if
you use your will to routinely move heavy things, run around, or eat fewer
tacos.

Just as you can change your body at the atomic level by lifting weights,
exercising, or eating differently, you can willfully alter your brain by
performing another physical act: thinking in a certain way.

Continue reading →
October 23, 2015 Podcasts

Posts navigation

Previous1 2 3 … 16 Next
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. | The Hive Theme.

  • Home
  • About/Contact
  • All Posts
  • Books
  • Cookies
      □ Buttermilk cookies
      □ Chewbacca’s Chocolate Chip Vegan Cookies
      □ Chewy Rosemary Sugar Cookies
      □ Chewy Toffee Apple Cookies
      □ Chocolate Chip Cookie Ice Cream Sandwiches
      □ Chocolate Cranberry Oatmeal Cookies
      □ Chocolate Fudge Peanut Butter Cookies
      □ Chocolate Ginger Crinkle Cookies
      □ Chocolate-Orange Cherry Cookies
      □ Cinnamon Cardamom Snickerdoodles
      □ Cinnamon Chocolate Cookies
      □ Cocoa Chocolate Chip Pecan Cookies
      □ Coconut Chocolate Chip Cookies
      □ Crispy and Chewy Chocolate Oatmeal Cookies
      □ Earl Grey Cookies
      □ Frostbitten Molasses Cookies Entombed with Ginger
      □ Fudgy Oatmeal Cookies
      □ Gigi’s Famous, Award-Winning, Triple Ginger Cookies
      □ Hertzoggies
      □ Jeszicookies
      □ Lemon Ricotta Cookies with Lemon Glaze
      □ Lemon Zucchini Cornmeal Cookies
      □ Ma Cooper Cakes
      □ Macaroon Kisses
      □ Meta Cookies
      □ Meyrick Cookies
      □ Oatmeal Chocolate Chip Cookies
      □ Orange Coconut Chocolate Chip Cookies
      □ Peach Cookies
      □ Pecan Puffs
      □ Pumpkin Apple Cider Oatmeal Creme Pies
      □ Pumpkin Pie Snickerdoodles
      □ Raspberry Sandwich Cookies
      □ Sally Cookies
      □ Spiced Pecan Chocolate Chip Cookies
      □ Stained Glass Window Cookies
      □ Stellar Orange and Peanut Butter Cookies
      □ Strawberry Cheesecake Sandwich Cookies
      □ Sunshine Cookies
      □ Swedish Cookies
      □ Swedish Lemon Angels
      □ Turtle Cookies
      □ Ultimate Chocolate Chip Cookie n’ Oreo Fudge Brownie Bars
      □ White Chocolate Chip Oatmeal Cookies
      □ Wife Cookies
  • Errata
  • Italian Biscotto
  • Lectures
  • Merch
  • Orange Slice Cookies
  • Podcast
  • Transcripts
      □ Transcript: Interview with Bruce Hood from Episode 004
      □ Transcript: Interview with Daniel Pink from Episode 037
      □ Transcript: Interview with David Dunning from Episode 036
      □ Transcript: Interview with Hugo Mercier from Episode 009
      □ Transcript: Interview with James Burke from Episode 020
      □ Transcript: Interview with Laurie Santos from Episode 040
      □ Transcript: Interview with Lee Ross from Episode 062
      □ Transcript: Interview with Melanie C. Green from Episode 014
      □ Transcript: Interview with Ryan Scott from Episode 039
      □ Transcript: Interview with Steven Novella from Episode 016
      □ Transcript: Interview with V.S. Ramachandran from Episode 003
      □ Transcript: Interview with Will Storr from Episode 033
  • White Chocolate Oreo Cookies

Secondary navigation

  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • Google Plus
  • Pinterest
  • YouTube
  • iTunes
  • RSS

  • Search

Search for: [Search]
Begin typing your search above and press return to search. Press Esc to cancel.

 
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. The Hive Theme.
Follow

Follow “”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 17,731 other followers

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
