 

[oogclogo]

 Home   About Me    Latest From Author     Links    Introduction Contact   Buy Books
                                                                 Author


Welcome to Out of God's Closet!   Listen to Dr. UhlListen to Dr. Uhl.   ●Our
theme song.
                                                                Audio files
will be named "No Gods, No Guilt" but they are duplicates of "Out of God's
Closet"

                              Out of God's Closet
     (Alternately named "Imagine No Superstition" and "No Gods, No Guilt")
                                       
In this exciting book, Out of God's Closet, a former faithful Roman Catholic
priest-become-psychologist shares his inviting journey through agnosticism to
atheism and The 21st Century Golden Rule. Dr. Uhl's Journey was quite unique.
Yet he clearly shows most of us how to get free and drop childhood prejudices
and myths. This can deeply enrich individuals and families throughout our
pluralistic society.

Tune in to Dr. Uhl's weekly podcast!

                               For the reviews of the 190-page book, click Review 1, Review
          AUDIO NOW            2, Review 3.
         AVAILABLE!
    The audio version of       Click Latest from the Author to read Dr. Uhl's latest
     Out of God's Closet       published article, Atheist Ethics, Who Decides What is Good?
     is now available as       in the Secular Nation.
     No Gods, No Guilt.*
                               No Gods, No Guilt is the audio version of Out of God's Closet
  No Gods, No Guilt Podcast    read by the author himself. It is available in MP3 format.

    [book090510trimmed-2]      To hear an audio chapter sample, click The Chosen One.

     OUT OF GOD'S CLOSET              PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
  This Priest Psychologist            Click to purchase CD and ship to domestic U.S.
  Chooses Friendly Atheism

                                      PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                       Click to purchase CD and ship to outside U.S.


                                      PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                               Click to purchase single copy paperback and ship to domestic
                                                           U.S.


                                      PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                Click to purchase single copy paperback and ship to outside
                                                           U.S.

                                                Click here to send a gift.

                               CD or paperback will be autographed by author if your PayPal
                               message requests it.


                                      PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *

                               For multiple copies of Out of God's Closet, click Buy Books.

                               Phone orders can be placed at Publishers Express Press or by
                               phone at 800 255.9929, extension 25 (Becky at Publishers
                               Express Press).

                                                    Tell your friends!

                                         Enter your friends' email addresses here.
                                       [     Enter Email Address Here   ] [Send Now]

                                 We respect your privacy and do not share email addresses.

                                        

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Site maintained by Wheeler Initiatives. For technical problems:
INSsupport@geowhe.com.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

