[Search...           ][GO]
Contact Us Feed

  • Main
  • Archives
  • Forum
  • Wall
  • Sims
  • Links
  • About

Rainbow

By Matt Young on January 18, 2016 12:00 PM | 45 Comments (new)

Photograph by Gabrielle Hovinen.

Gabrielle_Rainbow_600.jpg

Rainbow, showing a primary and a secondary rainbow, plus a bevy of Hovinens.
The primary rainbow is overexposed, but the photograph clearly shows how the
sky is brighter inside the primary rainbow and outside the secondary rainbow.
See Figure 6 here.

Comment on “Rainbow”.

Target? TARGET? We STILL don’t need no stinkin’ Target!

By Dave Thomas on January 16, 2016 9:09 AM | 54 Comments (new)

weasel-1.jpg

As part of the year-end Kitzmas festivities, The Discovery Institute’s PR organ
Evolution News and Views re-posted an earlier article titled Following
Kitzmiller v. Dover, an Excellent Decade for Intelligent Design.

This uncredited article from September 2015 included the following, which
caught my eye:


    In fact, the decade since Dover has been an excellent one for ID. Casey
    Luskin noted some highlights not long ago:… Theoretical peer-reviewed
    papers taking down alleged computer simulations of evolution, showing that
    intelligent design is needed to produce new information.

The paper which was linked, hereafter Ewert 2014, is titled “Digital
Irreducible Complexity: A Survey of Irreducible Complexity in Computer
Simulations”, and was written by Winston Ewert of the Biologic Institute for a
2014 edition of the institute’s open-access journal BIO-Complexity.

weasel.jpg

Ewert claims that Michael Behe’s concept of “Irreducible Complexity” is a
stumbling block for evolutionary algorithms, and that several computer models
of the evolution of irreducibly complex structures all fail to falsify Behe’s
concept. Ewert examines five models: Lenski’s Avida, Schneider’s Ev, my own
Steiner Trees, Sadedin’s Geometric Model, and Thompson’s Digital Ears program.

I won’t speak for the other models, but I can say this about Ewert’s discussion
of Steiner solutions to network problems: it’s a massive strawman fallacy, a
desperate “bait and switch” in which the problem my algorithm was solving,
Steiner networks, was “replaced” with a much simpler problem, Minimum Spanning
Trees. This ruse enabled Ewert to launch a (straw) attack on my genetic
algorithm for solving Steiner’s problem.

The Steiner Genetic Algorithm was the subject of a heated blog war, the “War of
the Weasels,” occurring between Panda’s Thumb and Uncommon Descent during the
summer of 2006. It all began with my post of July 5^th, 2006, Target? TARGET?
We don’t need no stinkin’ Target! It seemed the War of the Weasels ended in the
fall of 2006, after Uncommon Descent’s top programmers were unable to
out-design the Steiner genetic algorithm during a public design challenge. But
with Ewert’s 2014 article, and an earlier 2012 piece in BIO-Complexity by
Ewert, Dembski and Marks, it’s clear that no ceasefire exists.

The War of the Weasels is back! More below the fold.

Continue reading “Target? TARGET? We STILL don’t need no stinkin’ Target!”.

PT is experiencing Technical Difficulties

By Dave Thomas on January 5, 2016 9:08 PM | 32 Comments (new)

Our server is having issues. The Crew is figuring out how best to proceed.

For the moment, comments may not be working correctly.

Stay tuned for updates.

Comment on “PT is experiencing Technical Difficulties”.

Iridescence with wave clouds

By Matt Young on January 4, 2016 12:00 PM | 8 Comments (new)
DSC00889_Iridescence_600.JPG

Iridescence with wave clouds, Boulder, Colorado, December, 2015.

Comment on “Iridescence with wave clouds”.

Update on the Tree of Birds

By Emily Thompson on January 4, 2016 10:00 AM | 31 Comments (new)

The tree of birds just got a bit more accurate with a study published last
October. We first covered the ever-evolving tree in 2014, when we posted about
a study in Science magazine that used phylogenomics and thousands of genes
sequenced from 48 bird species to produce what was thought to be the most
accurate phylogenetic tree of birds to date (Jarvis et. al., 2014; see their
tree here). Since then, a different team of scientists published a new
phylogeny of birds that it claims is the most comprehensive (Prum et. al., 2015
; see their tree below). So what is the difference between these two trees and
how they were constructed, and which is more accurate?

The biggest difference between the methods of the two studies is the amount of
data used. In the Jarvis et. al. study, the authors sequenced the whole genomes
of 48 bird species and aligned thousands of genes. But Prum et. al. criticize
this methodology as too “sparse” of a sampling; instead, they used 198 bird
species and two crocodile species. Because sequencing that many whole genomes
would be costly and time-consuming, Prum et. al. developed genetic markers that
targeted highly conserved “anchor” regions of vertebrate genomes – regions did
not change much over many years. Using this technology, the new tree of birds
could be developed with only about 400 genetic regions instead of the thousands
of genes in the previous study.

If there is a tradeoff between analyzing more genes or more species, is it more
accurate to compare fewer genes between more species, or more genes between
fewer species? One is not inherently better than the other, but rather, the way
in which each is used relative to common issues in constructing a phylogenetic
tree determines accuracy of the tree.

One such issue is distinguishing important genetic signals from noise. Genomic
data contains a certain amount of “phylogenetic signal,” the informative genes
that determine lineage. This signal must be differentiated from
non-phylogenetic signal–genes that falsely suggest certain relationships. For
example, non-phylogenetic signal can arise because species divergence events
that happened close together in time are difficult to distinguish, or when
species that diverged from a common ancestor a long time ago independently
develop similar traits (called homoplasy). A 2011 article in PLOS Biology
analyzed published phylogenetic trees and noted that merely adding more genes
did not improve their accuracy because adding genes amplifies all signal
(non-phylogenetic and phylogenetic alike).

nature15697-f1.jpg

Additionally, a phylogeny will only be accurate if the orthologous genes–those
genes shared between species that were inherited from a common ancestor–are
correctly identified. And that depends on the ability of software to
distinguish orthologous genes from similar genetic sequences between species
that code for genes that are not orthologous but rather are xenologous
(transferred via horizontal gene transfer instead of inherited from the common
ancestor) or paralogous (resulting from duplication of a gene). (Read more
about orthologous, xenologous, and paralogous genes here.)

The model of evolution that researchers choose to use in their analysis can
also greatly influence phylogeny accuracy. The PLOS article authors analyzed
models and found some have difficulty detecting nucleotide substitutions,
resulting in trees that are dominated by non-phylogenetic signal.

While analyzing a larger set of species won’t help when a model of evolution is
inadequate or software has issues identifying orthologous genes, it can help
with the issue of non-phylogenetic signal. Increasing the number of species in
a study generally increases the phylogenetic signal-to-noise ratio, making it
easier to detect substitutions that can lead to homoplasy, and also can improve
accuracy by breaking up long branches. But the PLOS article states that it is
not enough to just add more species; researchers should analyze more species
that evolve slowly and comprise outgroups closely related to the group of
interest.

Thus, including more species to construct a phylogenetic tree may be beneficial
for tree accuracy, but only as long as methods for determining orthologous
structures and modeling evolution are sufficient, and the chosen species are
appropriate. Because Prum et. al. looked at more species while keeping these
important factors in mind, and developed quality genetic markers that analyze
enough genetic regions to determine phylogenetic relationships, they argue
their tree is the most accurate yet. It is a convincing argument for the
moment, but phylogenetic analysis can always be improved with better software
and models, and the tree of birds (and the tree of life in general) will be
constantly revised in the future as these methods improve.

The latest tree of birds presents a few differences from the Jarvis et. al.
tree, some of which Prum et. al. suggest resulted from their larger sample
size. One of the most striking differences is in the classification of the
major bird groups. Jarvis et. al. propose that the initial divergence of a
highly debated branch of birds, called Neoaves, resulted in two main groups:
Columbea, containing birds like doves and flamingoes, and Passerea, containing
a wide variety of species (parrots, falcons, penguins, and eagles, to name a
few). But Prum et. al.’s tree instead splits Neoaves into five groups:
Strisores (nightjars, hummingbirds, and frogmouths), Columbaves (cuckoos,
pigeons, and sandgrouse), Gruiformes (cranes, coots, and rails),
Aequorlitornithes (grebes, flamingoes, and shorebirds), and finally the very
diverse Inopinaves (owls, vultures, and parrots). Also, Jarvis et. al. place
pigeons, mesites, and sandgrouse in their own branch (Columbea) apart from the
rest of Neoaves, while Prum et. al. rejected that for their five-group system.
The Prum et. al. classification of Neoaves is likely the most accurate because
they included more species that diverged close to speciation events (called
nodes), which is especially important when the time between multiple nodes is
short.

These findings bring up some new ideas about bird evolution and also support
some old ones. For one, the new tree of birds developed by Prum et.al. supports
a previous theory that swifts and hummingbirds, neither of which is nocturnal,
evolved from a group of birds that had been nocturnal for 10 million years
(Jarvis et. al. finds a similar relationship). Also, the new finding of the
group consisting of waterbirds and shorebirds (Aequorlithornithes) suggests
that the divergence of birds into different environments occurred with some
level of restriction, known as evolutionary constraint. But as interesting and
exciting as the new tree and its implications for bird evolution are, it is
unlikely to be the final word on bird evolution. Other studies have also been
published examining parts of the bird tree (like Rocha et. al. on the bird
genus containing woodcreepers and Bell et. al. on an extinct group of
Cretaceous birds). A new, more accurate complete tree of birds that supports or
rejects these theories may be only another year away. Such is the nature of
scientific research.

This series is supported by NSF Grant #DBI-1356548 to RA Cartwright.

Comment on “Update on the Tree of Birds”.

Luskin: “I am leaving Discovery Institute”

By Dave Thomas on January 1, 2016 12:34 PM | 136 Comments (new)

Luskin.jpg

From yesterday’s announcement on ENV:

    It is with a mixture of sadness and excitement that I write this to
    announce that, as the year 2015 closes, I am leaving Discovery Institute. I
    am doing so in order to fulfill a lifelong goal of furthering my studies.
    My colleagues, who entirely support this decision, are people of the utmost
    integrity and they have been incredibly generous and welcoming to me and my
    family. I know we will miss each other. Working here over the past ten
    years has been a wonderful experience for which I am extremely grateful.

I think this will be good for Casey. Who knows, next time he reviews a show on
TV about the science of evolution, he’ll now have time to actually watch the
entire episode before writing a critique.

Discuss.

Comment on “Luskin: “I am leaving Discovery Institute””.

Dodging Darwin: How Ken Ham’s Ark is slowly embracing evolution

By Matt Young on December 29, 2015 2:52 PM | 197 Comments (new)

By David MacMillan.

David has been fascinated by the creation/evolution controversy for many years.
Growing up, he was fully committed to creationist apologetics. He purchased a
lifetime charter membership to the Creation Museum and even had blog posts
featured on the Answers in Genesis website. During college, he continued to
actively pursue creation apologism as he earned a degree in physics, but began
to recognize the mounting religious and scientific problems with young-earth
creationism. His renewed investigation uncovered more and more misconceptions
implicit in creationism, and he eventually rejected it as both theologically
indefensible and scientifically baseless. He now writes extensively about
young-earth creationism for several websites.

_____

Note added December 30, 2015: This article has been cross-posted at Naturalis
Historia, the blog of Joel Duff. As David MacMillan notes below, in a comment,
“He gets a slightly different readership and has attracted the attention of AiG
before so it will be neat to see whether they deign to reply.”
_____

As the strict young-earth creationists at Answers in Genesis work to complete
their Ark Encounter “theme park”, they have expended an impressive amount of
energy organizing the millions of species of land animals alive today into a
handful of small groups they call “baramins”. They claim these groups represent
the original created kinds of which Noah would have brought pairs onto the ark.
This consolidation of numerous species into single “baramin” groups is driven
primarily by the space on Noah’s purported vessel. The smaller the menagerie
the Ark was purported to have contained, the more feasible it seems, and so the
“baraminologists” at Answers in Genesis have gone to great lengths to explain
how the vast array of species today could have been represented by a relatively
low number of ancestral pairs.

One well-known hallmark of modern young-earth creationism is the dogma of
separation between “microevolution” and “macroevolution”. Although early
opponents of Darwinian evolution categorically denied that speciation or
natural selection were possible at all, advances in genetics and biology made
this position completely untenable. In response, creationists (particularly the
young-earth crowd) protested that while “microevolution” was a viable,
observable process in biology which they accept as “change or speciation within
a kind”, the notion of “macroevolution”, or “change between kinds”, remains
impossible. These definitions beg the question by presuming such things as
discrete “kinds” exist, but creationists are nonetheless insistent that while
adaptation or speciation within a particular “baramin” is observable (and,
indeed, necessary in order to account for the present observed diversity of
life), there is never any overlap between separate kinds. Their most well-known
example of “kinds” is the difference between cats and dogs, where they explain
that the diversity of dog breeds is the result of “microevolution” from some
original dog/wolf kind, but that dogs will never “macroevolve” into cats.

Unfortunately for the young-earth model, the push to minimize the number of
animals riding on the Ark has exposed a major problem with this view.
Ironically, this problem is perhaps nowhere more apparent than with the very
clade (the technical/evolutionary equivalent of the term “kind”) to which cats
and dogs belong: Order Carnivora.

The Answers in Genesis website has repeatedly posted large, detailed lists of
various species, families, and orders with attempts to organize them into
baramins. One of the largest such postings, by retired veterinarian Jean
Lightner, organizes the majority of Order Carnivora into eight distinct
“baramins”: felines, civets, dogs, hyenas, bears, weasels, mongooses, and red
pandas.

MacMillan_Baramins_Fig_1_600.jpg

Figure 1. The eight major carnivorous “baramins”, as claimed by young-earth
creationists at Answers in Genesis.

Continue reading “Dodging Darwin: How Ken Ham’s Ark is slowly embracing
evolution”.

Zack Kopplin interviews former Discovery Institute employee

By Nick Matzke on December 28, 2015 4:59 PM | 42 Comments (new)

Zack Kopplin, who has been opposing the antievolution nonsense in Louisiana
since 2008, has an interesting new article in The Daily Beast:

Kopplin, Zack (2015). Creationism Whistleblower: ‘Academic Freedom’ Is Sneak
Attack on Evolution. The Daily Beast. December 28, 2015.  http://
www.thedailybeast.com/articl[…]olution.html

Kopplin has really gotten the goods on what these “stealth creationism” bills
mean on the ground – of course, what they mean is straight-up creationism
taught in the public schools. Kopplin quotes from documents he has obtained
from Louisiana school districts.

Also – it looks like Kopplin somehow got an interview with a former employee of
the Discovery Institute – evidently someone who eventually saw that what was
really going on there was apologetics for a very specific sectarian view,
rather than actual science.

Here’s one of the good quotes from Kopplin’s article:

Continue reading “Zack Kopplin interviews former Discovery Institute employee”.

Lenticular cloud

By Matt Young on December 21, 2015 12:00 PM | 5 Comments (new)
IMG_3048_Lenticular_Clouds_600.JPG

Lenticular clouds, Golden, Colorado, November, 2012. The camera was facing
east, with its back toward the foothills of the Rocky Mountains. The clouds
looked as if they may have formed on the leeward side of South Table Mountain.

Comment on “Lenticular cloud”.

ID at Kitzmiller+10: They still don’t get it

By Nick Matzke on December 20, 2015 9:09 AM | 263 Comments (new)

Well, I can’t believe it’s been 10 years, but the anniversary of the Kitzmiller
v. Dover decision is finally upon us. Looking at the Discovery Institute’s
posts over the last few days, and comparing them to the discussion that was
going on in December 2005 (see the Panda’s Thumb archive for 2005 – John West
is all over that feed as well!), I guess the main thought I have is: just like
2 days after the decision, 10 years later, the ID guys still don’t get it.

The last ten years have been one long bout of the following:

Continue reading “ID at Kitzmiller+10: They still don’t get it”.

Kitzmas – tenth anniversary of Kitzmiller victory

By Matt Young on December 20, 2015 12:00 AM | 70 Comments (new)
DSC00869_Steffi_Kitzmiller_600.JPG

Professor Steve Steve’s cousin, Dr. Steffi Steffi, a lesser giant panda (
Ailuropoda melanoleuca minor), was in Peru on December 21, 2005, and she read
about the previous day’s decision in the Times Digest. Here she looks with
pleasure at the announcement by Wesley Elsberry in The Panda’s Thumb on
December 20 and a longer article by Laurie Goodstein in the Times the following
day.

Comment on “Kitzmas – tenth anniversary of Kitzmiller victory”.

Bonus material on The Evolution of Antievolution Policies After Kitzmiller v.
Dover

By Nick Matzke on December 19, 2015 4:28 AM | 68 Comments (new)

PhyloWiki_Matzke_2015.pngOn PhyloWiki, I have just posted a page of bonus
material on the Science paper “The Evolution of Antievolution Policies After 
Kitzmiller v. Dover.”

Highlights include:

  • pre-print text (for those without university access to Science or
    ScienceExpress)
  • supplemental material & data (also archived at Science, but may not be
    generally available until the article moves from ScienceExpress to Science
  • A version of the phylogeny that is CC BY-SA 4.0 licensed (for those of you
    who want to make t-shirts; or conceivably, other uses)
  • A Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) section that aims to be introductory
  • Bonus graphics: PDFs of character maps for all characters and traits
  • List of media links
  • List of blog links

Continue reading “Bonus material on The Evolution of Antievolution Policies
After Kitzmiller v. Dover”.

Discovery Institute: So much for Academic Freedom!

By Nick Matzke on December 18, 2015 9:07 AM | 38 Comments (new)

(Update: paper preprint and bonus material available free here)

It appears that John West and the Discovery Institute skipped past reading the 
Science paper and went straight to accusing the author of misconduct. So much
for “Academic Freedom”! I don’t even think they read the Supplemental Material,
and I’m pretty sure they wouldn’t understand if if they did. It’s conceivable
they aren’t up on the latest in phylogenetic methods and their applications.

In any event, though, I welcome any opportunity to explain why my research is
in the public interest and how this work connects to my other work
scientifically. It’s very late here in Australia, so I will give the short
version.

Continue reading “Discovery Institute: So much for Academic Freedom!”.

University rescinds honorary degree awarded to Konrad Lorenz

By Matt Young on December 18, 2015 6:10 AM | 13 Comments (new)

The Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported yesterday that the University of
Salzburg has posthumously rescinded an honorary doctorate it had awarded to the
ethologist Konrad Lorenz because of what Haaretz called “his fervent embrace of
Nazism.” Some people consider Lorenz, the man who famously got a gaggle of
geese to imprint on him, to be the father of ethology. Haaretz says,

    Lorenz describes himself as “always a National Socialist.” He says his work
    “stands to serve National Socialist thought.”

    The university says Lorenz spread “basic elements of the racist ideology of
    National Socialism” in his work.

Continue reading “University rescinds honorary degree awarded to Konrad Lorenz
”.

The evolution of antievolution policies after Kitzmiller v. Dover

By Nick Matzke on December 17, 2015 2:41 PM | 41 Comments (new)

(Update: paper preprint and bonus material available free here)

It is 7 am in Australia, but this is finally out on Thursday afternoon in the
U.S.…just in time for the tenth anniversary of Kitzmiller v. Dover! I will do a
longer post a little later, but for now - be sure to check out the Supplemental
Material!

Matzke, Nicholas J. (2015). “The evolution of antievolution policies after 
Kitzmiller v. Dover. Science, Published online Dec. 17, 2015. ( http://
www.sciencemag.org/content/e[…]057.abstract |  http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/
science.aad4057)

See also: PDF of character maps for characters 1-111 of the Matzke (2015)
phylogeny of antievolution bills. These are the presence-absence characters;
there are more characters but in a larger file, we’ll see how PT handles this
one first

Comment on “The evolution of antievolution policies after Kitzmiller v. Dover”.

The War Before Kitzmas

By Wesley R. Elsberry on December 12, 2015 11:14 PM | 261 Comments (new)

Over at Elizabeth Liddle’s “The Skeptical Zone” (TSZ) blog, Salvador Cordova
had something to say about being banned from the “Uncommon Descent” (UD) blog,
now being managed (loosely speaking) by Barry K. Arrington.

Arrington did something for Cordova that he doesn’t do for most people banned
from UD, which was to send Sal an explanatory letter, which Sal included in his
TSZ post. I’ll quote it below the fold.

Continue reading “The War Before Kitzmas”.

Kitzmas is Coming!

By Nick Matzke on December 12, 2015 11:05 PM | 97 Comments (new)

The tenth anniversary of the Kitzmiller v. Dover decision, which came out on
December 20, 2005, is right around the corner. There have already been some
good retrospectives, including a series of pieces by the York Daily Record,
another series in Reports of the National Center for Science Education, and a “
What If Intelligent Design Had Won?” discussion by Eugenie Scott and Kenneth
Miller in York College, Pennsylvania, in November. There will undoubtedly be
more to come; please post links in the comments when you see them come out.

Continue reading “Kitzmas is Coming!”.

Toxicodendron rydbergii

By Matt Young on December 7, 2015 12:00 PM | 2 Comments (new)
DSC00761_Poison_Ivy_600.JPG

Toxicodendron rydbergii – western poison ivy, South Boulder Creek Trail,
Boulder, Colorado, September, 2015. Poison ivy is red only in the fall.

Game over for antievolutionary No Free Lunch argument

By Nick Matzke on December 4, 2015 10:58 PM | 254 Comments (new)

This has been obvious from the start, but as far as I know it has taken 10
years for the ID guys to finally admit it. Winston Ewert writes at the
Discovery Institute blog:

    However, Felsenstein and English note that a more realistic model of
    evolution wouldn’t have a random fitness landscape. Felsenstein, in
    particular, argues that “the ordinary laws of physics, with their weakness
    of long-range interactions, lead to fitness surfaces much smoother than
    white-noise fitness surfaces.” I agree that weak long-range interactions
    should produce a fitness landscape somewhat smoother than random chance and
    this fitness landscape would thus be a source of some active information.

GAME OVER, MAN. GAME OVER! The whole point of Dembski et al. invoking “No Free
Lunch” theorems was to argue that, if evolutionary searches worked, it meant
the fitness function must be designed, because (logical jump herein) the No
Free Lunch theorems showed that evolutionary searches worked no better than
chance, when averaged over all possible fitness landscapes.

Emergency backup arguments to avoid admitting complete bankruptcy below the
fold, just so I’m not accused of leaving out the context.

Continue reading “Game over for antievolutionary No Free Lunch argument”.

Climate change: Point of no return?

By Matt Young on November 28, 2015 8:00 AM | 44 Comments (new)

Eli Kintisch at Science magazine has put together a remarkable collage called
After Paris: The rocky road ahead. Rocky indeed! The upper left graph shows
steadily rising global emissions of carbon dioxide, with not even a glitch
after the Kyoto meeting. The projections after the Paris meeting are not
comforting either, unless we undertake a massive effort.

But now look at the lower-right graph. Does anyone believe that we – that is,
the world – will really reduce investments in coal, oil, and gas production by
over $100 billion per year between 2010 and 2029? Or that we will increase
expenditures on energy efficiency by over $300 billion per year? Or that we
will learn to sequester more than half our carbon dioxide emissions by 2100?

In a companion article, Climate crossroads, Kintisch tries to be optimistic and
writes,

    Optimists point to the growing use of solar, wind, and other renewable
    power sources and the success of some nations, such as Denmark (see p.
    1020), in curbing emissions. But rising emissions from China, India, and
    other developing nations are swamping that progress. And the dismal track
    record of global climate talks inspires little confidence that nations can
    agree to make the huge changes required to stop treating the atmosphere
    like a carbon sewer.

    Negotiators huddling in Paris next week are convinced these talks will be
    different. In Kyoto, nations attempted to create a legally binding
    agreement, which subsequently failed to deliver results in part because the
    United States would not ratify the treaty. This time, nations—164 of them,
    by the time Science went to press—have each prepared pledges, called
    Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs), which detail their
    promised emissions cuts and other actions through 2030.

    Negotiators hope the bottom-up INDC approach will prevail where the
    top-down Kyoto strategy failed. Developing nations largely stuck to the
    sidelines in previous talks. This time almost everyone—including China and
    India (see p. 1024)—has pledged to limit emissions. And by arriving in
    Paris with pledges in hand, negotiators hope to avoid the last-minute
    deadlocks that have doomed past efforts.

I hope his optimism is not misplaced. I think we would rather not see Scranton,
Pennsylvania, on the Atlantic coast in 2100 (upper right). [Sorry, it is
Scranton, North Carolina, elevation, 0!]

Comment on “Climate change: Point of no return?”.
Archives

Find recent content on the main index or look in the archives to find all
content.

Awards & Honors

Scientific American Science and Technology Awards 2005

The 2006 Weblog Awards

Indexed in ISI Web of Knowledge Current Web Contents

featured in openlab 2006
View Our Openlab Entry

featured in openlab 2007
View Our Openlab Entries

Recent Entries

  • Rainbow
  • Target? TARGET? We STILL don’t need no stinkin’ Target!
  • PT is experiencing Technical Difficulties
  • Iridescence with wave clouds
  • Update on the Tree of Birds
  • Luskin: “I am leaving Discovery Institute”
  • Dodging Darwin: How Ken Ham’s Ark is slowly embracing evolution
  • Zack Kopplin interviews former Discovery Institute employee
  • Lenticular cloud
  • ID at Kitzmiller+10: They still don’t get it

Tag Cloud

  • 1000 Words
  • 1000 words
  • accessible research
  • AIG
  • Answers in Genesis
  • appeal
  • Ark Encounter
  • Ark Park
  • Behe
  • book review
  • Casey Luskin
  • contest
  • Creation Museum
  • creationism
  • Darwin
  • Dembski
  • Discovery Institute
  • education
  • Education
  • evolution
  • Evolution
  • evolution education
  • Expelled
  • Florida
  • Freshwater
  • genetics
  • Hamilton
  • ID
  • information
  • intelligent design
  • Intelligent Design
  • irreducible complexity
  • Ken Ham
  • Kitzmiller
  • Luskin
  • Mt. Vernon
  • nature images
  • NCSE
  • Ohio
  • Ohio Supreme Court
  • origin of life
  • photo
  • photography
  • Professor Steve Steve
  • religion
  • science
  • science education
  • Stephen Meyer
  • Texas
  • vacuity

Recent Comments

  • Just Bob: No fair when you hit Floyd with facts like that, because, like,
    you know stuff. read more
  • Just Bob: Dang, do you suppose they could wipe my junior high years? read
    more
  • stevaroni: I have a friend who is a physician, and he tells me that he’s
    always amused by the phrase “It isn’t brain surgery” He explains that, from
    his point read more
  • harold: I believe I can state that creationist evolution denial is “denial”
    in every sense of the word. read more
  • Yardbird: And bluebirds. Got to have bluebirds. read more
  • Yardbird: I think you’ve got to be a little crazy to figure you can cut the
    top off people’s heads without killing them. read more
  • Yardbird: The second major phase of armed European conflict in the 20th
    century was set-up by previous warfare; the defeat of France by Prussia and
    Germany in 1871 and the read more
  • Just Bob: … Now why does that ring a bell? read more
  • Just Bob: Oh, well, then don’t forget the pan flute music by Zamfir. read
    more
  • Marilyn: You’re right. I meant in a new scenario. read more

Categories

  • Announcements (53)
  • Ark Park (36)
  • Assault on Science (530)
  • Bathroom Wall (13)
  • Book Reviews (94)
      □ Explore Evolution (6)
      □ The Edge of Evolution (19)
      □ Wells' PIG (16)
  • Cambrian Explosion (5)
  • Climate change (4)
  • Conferences (26)
  • Darwin's Finches (3)
  • Designoids (9)
  • Education (23)
  • Education and Legal (207)
      □ Assault on Education (567)
          ☆ Florida (10)
          ☆ Kansas (11)
          ☆ Ohio (130)
          ☆ Texas (27)
      □ Improving science education (98)
      □ Kitzmiller Ruling (69)
  • Eugenics (6)
  • Evolution (1056)
      □ Biological complexity (85)
      □ Development (36)
      □ EvoMath (36)
      □ Irreducible Complexity (42)
          ☆ Blood clotting (4)
          ☆ Cilium evolution (4)
          ☆ Flagellum evolution (25)
          ☆ Immune system (8)
      □ Junk DNA (13)
      □ Phylogenetics (14)
      □ Transitional Fossils (43)
  • Evolution Education (58)
  • Expelled (72)
      □ Expelled Exposed (36)
      □ Expelled Flunked (33)
  • Flyers/Pamphlets (3)
  • Genetically modified organisms (1)
  • Humor (173)
  • ID/Creationism (162)
      □ Bible as Science (60)
      □ Creationism (141)
      □ Evolution of Creationism (53)
      □ Intelligent Design (499)
          ☆ Privileged Planet (23)
          ☆ Scientific Vacuity (83)
          ☆ The Wedge (11)
      □ Quote Mines (13)
  • Icons (4)
      □ Peppered Moths (2)
  • Journal Club (36)
  • Lab Notes (2)
  • Legal Issues (148)
  • Manufactroversy (21)
  • Medicine and Evolution (25)
  • Metatalk (100)
  • MustRead (7)
  • News Roundup (43)
  • Origin of new genes and new information (8)
  • Prebiotic Chemistry (12)
  • Question of the Day (7)
  • Question of the Moment
  • Quote of the Day (15)
  • Religion and Politics (25)
      □ Science and Faith (75)
      □ Science and Politics (22)
  • Research News (82)
  • Resources for Biologists (30)
  • Science and faith (30)
  • Shoptalk (39)
  • Slightly Off Topic (170)
  • Steve Steve (77)
  • Sticky (3)
  • Their Own Words (28)
  • Theological Issues with Intelligent Design (14)
  • War on Science (81)
  • What motivates creationism (37)

Archives

[Select a Month...]

Author Archives

[Select an Author...]

  • Subscribe to feed Subscribe to this blog's feed

Powered by Movable Type 4.381

Site Meter

Crew Login
Powered by Movable Type Pro
This blog is licensed under a Creative Commons License.
