SkepticblogSkepticblog logo banner

top navigation:

  • Home
  • Browse by Author
  • browse/search by subject
  • Explore Further
  • shop at skeptic.com

Recommended Reading

Amazon.com Widgets

About SkepticBlog

SkepticBlog is a collaboration among some of the most recognized names in
promoting science, critical thinking, and skepticism. Regular bloggers include:
Brian Dunning, Daniel Loxton, Donald Prothero, Mark Edward, Michael Shermer,
and Steven Novella. This site is hosted by the Skeptics Society.

READ the introductory post
READ the comment policy

Our Authors

  • Brian Dunning posts & RSS RSS icon
  • Daniel Loxton posts & RSS RSS icon
  • Donald Prothero posts & RSS RSS icon
  • Kirsten Sanford posts & RSS RSS icon
  • Mark Edward posts & RSS RSS icon
  • Michael Shermer posts & RSS RSS icon
  • Phil Plait posts & RSS RSS icon
  • Ryan Johnson posts & RSS RSS icon
  • Steven Novella posts & RSS RSS icon
  • Yau-Man Chan posts & RSS RSS icon
  • combined posts & RSS RSS icon

Subjects

aliens alternative medicine atheism autism belief bigfoot Brian Dunning CAM
Carl Sagan climate change conspiracy theories Creation creationism critical
thinking cryptozoology denialism dinosaurs Dr. Kiki earthquakes economics
education environment ethics evolution fossils geology Ghost Hunting ghosts
global warming God homeopathy intelligent design james randi journalism media
medicine michael shermer morality nasa paleontology paranormal politics
pseudoscience Psychics psychology religion science science denialism scope SETI
Shermer skeptical history skepticism skeptoid Skeptologists TV ufo ufos
vaccines video

Recent Comments

  • Daniel Loxton commented on A Fond Farewell to Skepticblog at 1:25 pm,
    September 18, 2014
  • markx commented on A Fond Farewell to Skepticblog at 8:52 pm, September 17,
    2014
  • Thomas commented on False Equivalence at 11:44 am, September 15, 2014
  • John Greg commented on A Fond Farewell to Skepticblog at 2:10 pm, September
    13, 2014
  • tmac57 commented on A Fond Farewell to Skepticblog at 10:39 am, September
    13, 2014

Order Classics of Skepticism

  • The Demon Haunted World
    by Carl Sagan
  • Flim Flam!
    by James Randi
  • Bad Astronomy (recorded lecture)
    by Phil Plait
  • Why People Believe Weird Things
    by Michael Shermer
  • other books & videos

Affiliated Sites

  • badastronomy.com
  • kirstensanford.com
  • newrule.com
  • randi.org
  • skeptic.com
  • skeptoid.com
  • skeptologists.com
  • themarkedward.com
  • theness.com
  • theskepticsguide.org

Announcing INSIGHT at Skeptic.com

by Skeptic Webmaster on Sep 17 2014

Insight-banner-for-Skepticblog

The Skeptics Society has retired Skepticblog (while preserving all posts online
at their original urls for future reference), but we’re proud to announce
our bigger, better new blog: INSIGHT at Skeptic.com! Dedicated to the spirit of
curiosity and grounded in scientific skepticism’s useful, investigative
tradition of public service, INSIGHT continues and expands upon the energetic
conversations begun here at Skepticblog.

INSIGHT launched today with an exciting lineup of many skeptical writers,
including Skepticblog alumni Donald Prothero, Michael Shermer, and Daniel
Loxton—who steps into the role of Blog Editor for the new platform.

Read Daniel’s introductory post, and we’ll see you over at INSIGHT at
Skeptic.com!

Comments Off

A Fond Farewell to Skepticblog

by Daniel Loxton on Sep 10 2014

Closing the curtain.

Image by Daniel Loxton

I’m posting today to announce on behalf of the Skeptics Society that
Skepticblog has reached its finale. It’s been a wonderful run, but with our
cast of characters called to perform on many other stages, it’s time to take a
bow and close the curtain. Happily, all of the posts on the site will remain
archived here indefinitely at their original urls, preserved for future
reference by the Skeptics Society.

In a few days we will announce an exciting new blog project that I think will
knock your socks off. I hope you’ll join us there (the details will be revealed
next week) but today I want to talk about what has been.
(continue reading…)

THIS ARTICLE HAS 13 COMMENTS

False Equivalence

by Donald Prothero on Sep 06 2014

Reality Check: How Science Deniers Threaten Our Future

Order the book from Shop Skeptic

In recent months, we’ve heard a number of prominent people (from Michael
Shermer to Neil DeGrasse Tyson) say that there’s no real difference between the
political parties when it comes to science denial. According to this argument,
there is  bad thinking and “woo” on both sides of the political spectrum. To
counteract the fact that science deniers like creationists and climate deniers
are overwhelmingly Republican, they point to other types of “woo” like
anti-vaxxers, anti-GMOs, anti-frackers, and the like, and claim that these are
largely found on the left wing. It turns out, however, that contrary to myth,
anti-vaxxers tend to be more right-wing than left-wing (especially among the
people who fear government, the large religious crowd that rejects modern
medicine, and the home schoolers who don’t want to let their kids be
vaccinated).

For example, in his 2012 book The Republican Brain: The Science of Why they
Deny Science—And Reality, Chris Mooney admits that not all examples of science
denial are on the right wing. There are certain ideas, such as the  fears of
nuclear power, or of scary oil company practices like fracking, that are
predominately held by liberals and environmentalists. But there are important
differences here. Adherence to pseudoscience and anti-science is not
symmetrically distributed between the left and the right. Ideas such as
anti-vaxx, anti-nukes, and anti-fracking are not held uniformly by the majority
of liberals or progressives, but only a tiny subset, whereas studies show that
the ideas of creationism and global climate change denial are virtually
universal among American conservatives now. (continue reading…)

THIS ARTICLE HAS 15 COMMENTS

A creationist mole and a sorry mess

by Donald Prothero on Sep 04 2014
CSUN lab technician Mark Armitage, who was fired after publishing creationist
ideas and preaching creationism in his Biology Department job

CSUN lab technician Mark Armitage, was fired after publishing creationist ideas
and preaching creationism in his Biology Department job

A few weeks ago, a story broke in the news about a creationist working in the
Biology Department at California State University Northridge (CSUN), who was
fired for pushing creationism in the department. The story exploded across the
internet, especially among the creationist organizations who are once again
claiming persecution by scientists. CSUN apparently botched both the hiring of
this guy, and now his dismissal, so they’ve been sued and this is going to play
out badly for them in the courts. But the entire case raises larger issues that
are not easily resolved.

First, the facts of the case. The plaintiff is Mark H. Armitage, a microscope
technician (not a professional biologist). He did some undergrad work in
Biology at University of Florida, but didn’t graduate. Then he got his B.S. in
Education from Jerry Falwell’s fundamentalist Liberty University, and his M.S.
in Biology (parasitology) from the Institute of Creation Research, an
unaccredited fundamentalist organization that  has since left California and
closed down its graduate program. As many others have shown, the ICR “Master’s
Degree” was a sham, consisting of little more that incompetently done book
reports and quote-mining from legitimate scientific literature with a
creationist spin, not legitimate scientific research. I’ve seen a number of
“master’s theses” from there—they are so bad they wouldn’t even pass for a
freshman book report. Prior to his employment at CSUN, he was employed as a
microscope technician at a variety of Christian schools. But he has no Ph.D.,
no formal training or peer-reviewed published research in the histology he was
working on. He’s just a humble lab tech on a 2-day a week part-time gig, with
no guarantee of employment from one semester to the next. His sole job is to
maintain and keep track of the microscopes in a big department with hundreds of
them, not to teach courses or do research. (continue reading…)

THIS ARTICLE HAS 28 COMMENTS

The great Pacific garbage patch

by Donald Prothero on Sep 01 2014
The "Great Pacific Garbage Patch" covers an area many times larger than Texas

The “Great Pacific Garbage Patch” covers an area many times larger than Texas

When I teach Intro to Oceanography this semester and last year, one of the
stories that made the greatest impression on my students (and on me, too) was
the sad account of the “Great Pacific Garbage Patch.” This is an area of the
ocean surface in the North Pacific covering between 700,000 square kilometers
(270,000 sq mi) to more than 15,000,000 square kilometers (5,800,000 sq mi),
larger than the size of Texas. It is composed nearly entirely of plastic trash,
fishing nets, and other floating garbage, at least 80% which comes from the
land and is non-biodegradable. The denser areas of garbage are so large they
can be seen from satellite views.

Why is so much garbage concentrated in one area? It all has to do with the
oceanic currents that I teach my Oceanography students about. The centers of
each portion of the ocean is surrounded by a big circular current called a
gyre, which usually runs in a clockwise fashion in the Northern Hemisphere and
counterclockwise in the Southern Hemisphere (due to the Coriolis effect). In
the North Pacific, a huge gyre completely surrounds the center of the northern
ocean, with the warm fast Kuroshio Current coming up from the tropics past
Japan, and the cold slow California Current coming down the eastern edge from
Alaska, connected by currents (North Equatorial, North Pacific) which travel
east or west to connect these in the equator and in the polar regions. This
spiraling current tends to accumulate a mound of water in the middle (due to
the Ekman spiral effect) that is rather stagnant and does not mix or blend with
the boundary currents very well. It is also at a latitude with permanent
high-pressure over it, so there’s no strong air currents to move it in any
particular direction. Consequently, the centers of ocean gyres are slow and
stagnant and tend to accumulate stuff that floats into them, and cannot escape.
In the North Atlantic, the stagnant center of the gyre is called the “Sargasso
Sea” after the huge floating patches of Sargassum seaweed that floats in the
region for decades. There are garbage patches of smaller size in most of the
other oceanic gyres as well. But in the North Pacific gyre, what stays put is
garbage, the largest such patch in the world. (continue reading…)

THIS ARTICLE HAS 10 COMMENTS

the pot calling the kettle black

by Donald Prothero on Aug 27 2014

1975201_461800597284309_7035291477979682177_n
In our modern world, we have a strange phenomenon. When polls are conducted
about which professions the public considers most trustworthy and useful to
society, scientists nearly always come out at or near the top. This poll  by
the Pew Research Center of 4006 American adults placed them just below the
military, doctors, and teachers in terms of trust and their contribution to
society. (To no one’s surprise, lawyers were considered the least trustworthy
and contributed least to society). This poll by Ipsos of 1018 adults in the UK
placed scientists just below doctors and teachers. (Lawyers were not included,
so bankers and politicians came out at the bottom in the UK).

Historically, this has long been true. Most people appreciate the huge benefit
that science brings to society in terms of the technological advances that make
our lives longer and better. And despite the stereotypes, apparently most
people still regard scientists as objectively seeking the truth, working hard
in their labs, and trying to unravel the secrets of the universe.
Unfortunately, the most common stereotypical myth, Hollywood’s “mad scientist
out to destroy/ dominate the world” is still pervasive as well. (continue
reading…)

THIS ARTICLE HAS 43 COMMENTS

“Shark week” goes belly up

by Donald Prothero on Aug 20 2014

563028_706005066080031_1609340441_n
A year ago, I blogged about the decline of “Shark Week” on Discovery Channel.
At that time, the normally documentary-filled week that was the channel’s
biggest draw all year was beginning to show signs of “jumping the shark.” As I
pointed out in previous posts, the deregulation of the airwaves in the late
1980s has led to a steady “network decay” of once reputable TV channels. When
cable TV first expanded into hundreds of speciality channels, they were all
dedicated to a core mission, whether it be golf or history or science. As
TVTropes.com explains it, all of these deregulated cable networks had to please
advertisers, and soon moved into reality shows and sensationalism to attract
the core audience of 18-31 year old males that advertisers covet. Discovery
Channel used to run almost non-stop documentary footage, and did fine like that
for over a decade. As TVTropes.com puts it:

    The Discovery Channel still shows plenty of actual documentary material,
    despite having been decaying for almost as long as MTV has. In the late 80s
    the lineup was mostly serious documentaries, the most famous of which was
    Wings (no relation to the sitcom except for a focus on aircraft) but which
    also included classy repackaged BBC imports like Making of a Continent —
    and once a year there was Shark Week, which was just what you’d expect. By
    the mid-1990s, they showed an obscene amount of home improvement shows and
    cooking shows aimed at stay-at-home moms (enough to spawn the spin-off
    Discovery Home & Leisure Channel, now Planet Green) and Wings had proven so
    popular it had been farmed out to its own spin-off, Discovery Wings Channel
    (now Military Channel). Now, they’re being swamped with “guys building and/
    or blowing things up” shows in the vein of MythBusters and Monster Garage.
    And about four different shows about ghost hunters. In 2005, Discovery
    debuted Cash Cab, a game show that takes place in the back of a cab,
    leaving one unsure whether it even has a theme beyond “non-fiction”. It
    gets weird when you realize that they’re knocking some of their own shows
    off, especially Mythbusters into Smash Lab (with a focus on safety
    measures) and How It’s Made into Some Assembly Required. The latter has
    almost only done products featured in the former (though How It’s Made has
    been on for just about ten years, so it’s hard to find something they
    haven’t done). The Discovery Channel also used to contain a lot of nature,
    which is where the now-classic Shark Week (which they still air regularly)
    originated from. But it seems that explosions have taken the place of
    tigers ripping stuff to pieces. Most of the nature shows have since been
    relegated to Animal Planet. Amusingly enough, despite the slippage over the
    years it remains the sole survivor of the educational channels on American
    cable television.

(continue reading…)

THIS ARTICLE HAS 8 COMMENTS

Bananaman slips again

by Donald Prothero on Aug 13 2014

500x390xComfort.jpg.pagespeed.ic.-vexiUXiGN
Followers of the evolution-creation wars in this country have heard about Ray
Comfort, a glorified street preacher with limited education (he has no college
degree) from New Zealand who runs a ministry out of Bellflower, California,
called the “Living Waters.” In his appearance, he reminds me of Sonny Bono,
except he’s not as smart. He is very prominent on the internet, with dozens of
videos (especially his “Way of the Master” series) pushing his theology, and
especially attacking evolution. His publicity and high visibility have sold
lots of his books (most of which are short titles cobbled together by
reprinting stuff from the public domain). Together with washed-up actor Kirk
Cameron, they have been constant gadflies preaching against science and
evolution, and doing anything possible to generate publicity and sales,
especially challenging evolutionists to pointless debates.

I first saw Comfort in action when he and some of his minions came to stalk the
huge crowds gathered to hear Richard Dawkins speak at Caltech for a Skeptic
Society event. They mingled about, trying to preach creationism, and handing
out their little paperback versions of Darwin’s “On the Origin of Species.”
However, this book is no true work of Darwin. Comfort has deliberately edited
the text to make it sound favorable to creationism, and added a long
introduction that is one debunked creationist trope after another. Keeping with
his habit of stalking scientists and secularists, I next saw him at a
freethought convention in Orange County, where he snuck in without paying for
the conference, and tried to interview some of the speakers. He baited P.Z.
Myers into an interview, and P.Z. willingly talked to him, not caring that
Comfort would selectively edit the interview to make it sound like P.Z. doubted
evolution. Unlike the other big fundamentalist creationist ministers who focus
on their own flock, Comfort’s approach is as a stalker and gadfly. His mission
is to gather video footage that he can take back to his editing room and
webmaster, and edit it down to create a “gotcha” moment and make secularists
look foolish. (continue reading…)

THIS ARTICLE HAS 46 COMMENTS

“Chemtrails”? Really? Did you flunk science?

by Donald Prothero on Aug 06 2014

10154425_764869966878669_5749542898777833390_n
For the past few years, my Facebook page kept flagging strange websites that
claimed that ordinary contrails formed by high-flying aircraft are
“chemtrails,” a special kind of chemical sprayed on the unwitting population
for reasons too bizarre and illogical to take seriously. For a long time, I’ve
ignored this garbage on the internet, but in recent years it has gotten more
and more pervasive, and I’ve run into people who believe it. There are whole
shows about it on the once-scientific Discovery Channel, and the History
Channel as well. Now the chemtrail community circulates their photos and videos
among themselves, put hundreds of these videos on YouTube, and on their own
sites and forums. But the way the internet works as a giant echo chamber for
weird ideas with no peer review, fact checking, or quality control, it’s
getting impossible to ignore them any more, and it’s time to debunk it.

The first few times I heard about “chemtrails”, my reaction was “You can’t be
serious.” But the people who spread this are serious. They are generally people
who have already accepted the conspiracy theory mindset, where everything that
they don’t like or don’t understand is immediate proof of some big government
conspiracy. But there’s an even bigger factor at work here: gross science
illiteracy. The first thing that pops in my mind reading their strange ideas is
“Didn’t this person learn any science in school?” And the fastest rebuttal I
give when I run into one of these nuts is: “Do you even understand the first
thing about our atmosphere? Anything released at 30,000  feet will blow for
miles away from where you see it, and has virtually no chance of settling
straight down onto the people below, and be so diluted it would have no
measurable amount of the chemical by the time it lands. That’s why crop-dusting
planes must fly barely 30 feet off the ground so their dust won’t blow too far
away from the crops!” (continue reading…)

THIS ARTICLE HAS 34 COMMENTS

Smarter than thou?

by Donald Prothero on Jul 30 2014
Neil deGrasse Tyson on "Real Time with Bill Maher", July 25, 2014

Neil deGrasse Tyson on “Real Time with Bill Maher”, July 25, 2014

In a previous post, I commented on how the Religious Right got upset when
“Cosmos” aired last spring. They were angry when “Cosmos” mentioned Giordano
Bruno or scientists who were persecuted by religious extremists during their
pursuit of truth. They recoiled in horror at  how often “Cosmos” reminded us of
our cosmic insignificance  compared to the scale of the universe, or from the
perspective of geologic time. They raged about the fact that “Cosmos” spent an
entire episode on on evolution, and the topic of evolution came up repeatedly.
And lots of pro-business types hated the episode about Clair Patterson’s lonely
fight against the lead manufacturers, who were invisibly polluting the world
and poisoning us all. The climate deniers hated that “Cosmos” mentioned
anthropogenic global warming many times.

Nonetheless, most of the reviews for “Cosmos” were overwhelmingly positive and
there’s good reason to think that it reached much of its target audience, and
inspired a lot of people to think about scientific questions in a way that
hasn’t  happened since the original Sagan version of “Cosmos.” I have been
rejoicing at the recent resurgence in the media popularity of science and
evolution lately, especially after Bill Nye’s defeat of Ken Ham, the great
response to Neil Shubin’s PBS documentary “Your Inner Fish,” and of course, the
huge popularity of Neil DeGrasse Tyson and “Cosmos”.  Finally, we have several
major scientists (Nye, Tyson, Shubin) who are popular in the media, especially
on trendy shows like “The Daily Show” and “Colbert Report” as well as national
news networks like MSNBC and CNN. They are national celebrities for all the
right reasons (smart, articulate, telling people the truth about science and
the world), rather than being famous because of reality TV or sports or
entertainment. They are becoming widely known, and doing a great job of
promoting science against the tidal wave of junk science and pseudoscience in
the media. There hasn’t been such high-profile popularity of scientists since
the days of Sagan himself. It’s about time! (continue reading…)

THIS ARTICLE HAS 32 COMMENTS

next page >>
Copyright (C) 2008–2014 SkepticBlog and the individual authors. All rights
reserved.
Hosted by Skeptic magazine. For website-related matters, contact the webmaster.
