  •  
  • Look up a Term Close Panel
  •  
  • CLAM Bake Close Clams
  •  

Climate Science Glossary

Term Lookup

Enter a term in the search box to find its definition.

Settings

Use the controls in the far right panel to increase or decrease the number of
terms automatically displayed (or to completely turn that feature off).

Term Lookup

Term: [                    ]
Define

Settings

[*]  Beginner [*]  Intermediate [*]  Advanced [*]  No Definitions Definition
Life: [20 seconds  ]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
All IPCC definitions taken from Climate Change 2007: The Physical Science
Basis. Working Group I Contribution to the Fourth Assessment Report of the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Annex I, Glossary, pp. 941-954.
Cambridge University Press.
[button_sks] [button_sks]
[wflag_engl] [wflag_czec] [wflag_croa] [wflag_finn] [wflag_span] [wflag_germ] 
[wflag_dani] [wflag_icel] [wflag_poli] [wflag_port] [wflag_japa] [wflag_dutc] 
[wflag_chin] [wflag_fren] [wflag_ital] [wflag_thai] [wflag_slov] [wflag_russ] 
[wflag_isra] [wflag_swed] [wflag_slov] [wflag_norw] [wflag_indo]

Home [p]Arguments [p]Software [p]Resources Comments [p]The Consensus Project
[p]Translations [p]About Donate
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━           * ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ * ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
[Search...           ][button_go]                                                                                [climate_ne]
                                       Explaining climate change science & rebutting global warming              COP21 LiveBlog
Twitter Facebook YouTube Pinterest     misinformation                                                            [Denial101x]
                                                                                                                  
RSS Posts RSS Comments Email           Scientific skepticism is healthy. Scientists should always challenge       
Subscribe                              themselves to improve their understanding. Yet this isn't what happens     : 
                                       with climate change denial. Skeptics vigorously criticise any evidence     : 
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━             that supports man-made global warming and yet embrace any argument,       
[left_header]                          op-ed, blog or study that purports to refute global warming. This         [tcpsite]
[left_1]  Climate's changed before     website gets skeptical about global warming skepticism. Do their          The Consensus Project
[left_2]  It's the sun                 arguments have any scientific basis? What does the peer reviewed          Website
[left_3]  It's not bad                 scientific literature say?
[left_4]  There is no consensus                                                                                  [eureka]
[left_5]  It's cooling                 [button_newcomers] [History_of_Climate_S] [button_big_picture]
[left_6]  Models are unreliable                                                                                  TEXTBOOK
[left_7]  Temp record is unreliable    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━   [modern_syn]
[left_8]  Animals and plants can       
          adapt                        2016 SkS Weekly News Roundup #4                                           THE ESCALATOR
[left_9]  It hasn't warmed since                                                                                 [SkepticsvR]
          1998                         Posted on 23 January 2016 by John Hartz                                   (free to republish)
[left_10] Antarctica is gaining ice
[left_11] View All Arguments...        A chronological listing of the news articles posted on the Skeptical      THE DEBUNKING HANDBOOK
[left_therm]                           Science Facebook page during the past week.                               [dbh_large]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       Sun Jan 17                                                                BOOK NOW AVAILABLE
        [IPCC_88] [rcp_icon]                                                                                     [Denial_Cover]
                                         • Danger ahead: migration, climate top risks for Davos leaders by Ben
     [theConsens] [trend_butt]             Hirschler, Reuters, Jan 14, 2016                                      The Scientific Guide to
                                         • Djibouti launches solar power project, plans for wind project,        Global Warming Skepticism
        [pp88] [Prediction]                Reuters, Jan 15, 2016                                                 [guide_icon]
                                         • Climate change, El Nin~o & Pacific Decadal Oscillation could result
     [button_oan] [climate_my]             to unbearable summer this year by Urmi Goswami, Economic Times, Jan   Smartphone Apps
                                           16, 2016
     [button_his] [button_mis]           • Rapid switch to renewable energy can put Paris climate goals within   iPhone
                                           reach by Suzanne Goldenberg, The Guardian, Jan 16, 2016               [iphone_80x]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━               • Paris climate deal offers flame of hope, says UN official             Android
Username      [                    ]        by Suzanne Goldenberg, The Guardian, Jan 17, 2016                    [android_ic]
Password      [                    ]     • The World Is Hemorrhaging Methane, and Now We Can See Where by        Nokia
[*] Keep me logged in                      Christina Nunez, National Geographic, Jan 13, 2016                    [nokia_icon]
[button_log]  New? Register here         • What is climate change doing to our health? by Marcus Ranney, World
Forgot your password?                      Economic Forum, Jan 176, 2016
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       Read more...
Latest Posts
                                       0 comments
  • 2016 SkS Weekly News Roundup #4
  • Thorough, not thoroughly           ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
    fabricated: The truth about        
    global temperature data            Thorough, not thoroughly fabricated: The truth about global temperature
  • The Little Ape That Could          data
  • A striking resemblance between
    testimony for Peabody Coal and     Posted on 22 January 2016 by Guest Author
    for Ted Cruz
  • A Rough Guide to Rainfall,         This is a re-post by Scott K. Johnson from Ars Technica
    Run-off and Rivers
  • Ted Cruz fact check: which             “In June, NOAA employees altered temperature data to get
    temperature data are the best?         politically correct results.”
  • A Response to the “Data or
    Dogma?” hearing                    At least, that's what Congressman Lamar Smith (R-Tex.) alleged in a 
  • 2016 SkS Weekly Digest #3          Washington Post letter to the editor last November. The op-ed was part
  • 2016 SkS Weekly News Roundup #3    of Smith's months-long campaign against NOAA climate scientists.
  • If Done Correctly, Refuting        Specifically, Smith was unhappy after an update to NOAA’s global
    Climate Myths can be an            surface temperature dataset slightly increased the short-term warming
    Effective Educational Strategy     trend since 1998. And being a man of action, Smith proceeded to give
  • Kids ask US presidential           an anti-climate change stump speech at the Heartland Institute
    candidates to debate science       conference, request access to NOAA's data (which was already publicly
  • The Quest for CCS                  available), and subpoena NOAA scientists for their e-mails.
  • NASA study fixes error in low
    contrarian climate sensitivity     Smith isn't the only politician who questions NOAA's results and
    estimates                          integrity. During a recent hearing of the Senate Subcommittee on Space,
  • Surface Temperature or Satellite   Science, and Competitiveness, Senator Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) leveled similar
    Brightness?                        accusations against the entire scientific endeavor of tracking Earth’s
  • 2016 SkS Weekly Digest #2          temperature.
  • 2016 SkS Weekly News Roundup #2
  • AGU’s Sharing Science is helping       “I would note if you systematically add, adjust the numbers upwards
    scientists talk to the rest of         for more recent temperatures, wouldn’t that, by definition, produce
    us                                     a dataset that proves your global warming theory is correct? And
  • Carbon Brief’s 15 numbers for          the more you add, the more warming you can find, and you don’t have
    2015                                   to actually bother looking at what the thermometer says, you just
  • Why is the largest Earth science       add whatever number you want.”
    conference still sponsored by
    Exxon?                             There are entire blogs dedicated to uncovering the conspiracy to alter
  • Latest data shows cooling Sun,     the globe's temperature. The premise is as follows—through supposed
    warming Earth                      “adjustments,” nefarious scientists manipulate raw temperature
  • 95% consensus of expert            measurements to create (or at least inflate) the warming trend. People
    economists: cut carbon pollution   who subscribe to such theories argue that the raw data is the true
  • 2016 SkS Weekly Digest #1          measurement; they treat the term “adjusted” like a synonym for
  • 2016 SkS Weekly News Roundup #1    “fudged.”
  • Tracking the 2°C Limit -
    November 2015                      Peter Thorne, a scientist at Maynooth University in Ireland who has
  • Alberta's new carbon tax           worked with all sorts of global temperature datasets over his career,
  • Why we need the                    disagrees. “Find me a scientist who’s involved in making measurements
    next-to-impossible 1.5°C           who says the original measurements are perfect, as are. It doesn’t
    temperature target                 exist,” he told Ars. “It’s beyond a doubt that we have to—have to—do
  • 2015 in Review: another            some analysis. We can’t just take the data as a given.”
    productive year for the
    Skeptical Science team             Speaking of data, the latest datasets are in and 2015 is (as expected)
  • The strong economics of wind        officially the hottest year on record. It's the first year to hit
    energy                             1DEGC above levels of the late 1800s. And to upend the inevitable
  • 2015 SkS Weekly Digest #52         backlash that news will receive (*spoiler alert*), using all the raw
  • 2015 SkS Weekly News Roundup #52   data without performing any analysis would actually produce the
                                       appearance of more warming since the start of records in the late
Archives                               1800s.

Climate Hustle                         Beating 2014, it was the first year to hit 1DEGC above levels of the
                                       late 1800s.

                                       We're just taking the temperature—how hard can it be?

                                       So how do scientists build datasets that track the temperature of the
                                       entire globe? That story is defined by problems. On land, our data
                                        comes from weather stations, and there’s a reason they are called
                                       weather stations rather than climate stations. They were built,
                                       operated, and maintained only to monitor daily weather, not to track
                                       gradual trends over decades. Lots of changes that can muck up the
                                       long-term record, like moving the weather station or swapping out its
                                       instruments, were made without hesitation in the past. Such actions
                                       simply didn’t matter for weather measurements.

                                       The impacts of those changes are mixed in with the climate signal
                                       you’re after. And knowing that, it’s hard to argue that you shouldn’t
                                        work to remove the non-climatic factors. In fact, removing these sorts
                                       of background influences is a common task in science. As an incredibly
                                       simple example, chemists subtract the mass of the dish when measuring
                                       out material. For a more complicated one, we can look at water levels
                                       in groundwater wells. Automatic measurements are frequently collected
                                       using a pressure sensor suspended below the water level. Because the
                                       sensor feels changes in atmospheric pressure as well as water level, a
                                       second device near the top of the well just measures atmospheric
                                       pressure so daily weather changes can be subtracted out.

                                       If you don't make these sorts of adjustments, you’d simply be stuck
                                       using a record you know is wrong.

                                       [gw_example-640x375]

                                       Enlarge / A couple months of data from a groundwater well.  Scott K.
                                       Johnson

                                       Read more...

                                       3 comments

                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                       The Little Ape That Could

                                       Posted on 21 January 2016 by Glenn Tamblyn

                                       The little Ape that Could

                                       (with apologies to Arnold Munk)

                                        

                                       A couple of years ago, on a panel TV show about climate change on the
                                       BBC, an audience member commented that they thought the idea that
                                       humanity could influence something like the earth's climate was
                                       arrogant. There is an important insight here if we unpack this thought
                                       a little.

                                       Is it arrogant to think we should seek to influence the climate? Yes,
                                       possibly, depending on your point of view. But that wasn't their point
                                       I think. Their point was that thinking we could influence the climate
                                       is arrogant. But it isn't arrogant; neither is it humble.

                                       It is a measurement.

                                       How powerful does 'something' have to be to influence the climate? And
                                       how powerful are we now? Both of these are questions that we can
                                       estimate quantitative answers to.

                                       The simple fact is, that over my lifetime - I was born in 1957 - or
                                       somewhat longer, humanity's power has grown enormously, and we haven't
                                       really noticed. This has been called the Great Acceleration and it has
                                       happened in one lifetime.

                                       So lets look at some measurements, some data on just how powerful we
                                       have become.

                                        

                                       More People.

                                       For most of human history the world's population was less than one
                                       billion people. In the time of Christ it was perhaps 200-300 million.
                                       We only reached one billion around 1800, two billion around 1925, three
                                       billion around 1960. We have added a billion people every 14 years or
                                       so since then.

                                        [Population]

                                       "Population curve" by El T - originally uploaded to en.wikipedia as
                                       Population curve.svg. The data is from the "lower" estimates at
                                       census.gov

                                        

                                       For a child born after the end of WWII, the world's population tripled
                                       in their lifetime. This has never ever happened to any other generation
                                       before them in all of history, and is unlikely to ever happen again.
                                       They, we, are a unique generation in history.

                                       Read more...

                                       13 comments

                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                       A striking resemblance between testimony for Peabody Coal and for Ted
                                       Cruz

                                       Posted on 20 January 2016 by John Abraham

                                       In a recent congressional hearing, Ted Cruz (one of the leading
                                       candidates for the Republican presidential nomination) first asked us
                                       to follow the science, and then misused and abused the very science he
                                       reportedly admires. The contrarian scientists that were invited to
                                       testify are members of a shrinking tribe that every year has to work
                                       harder to deny the clear evidence of a human-caused warming world.

                                       Those scientists were William Happer, Judith Curry, and John Christy.
                                       They argued that the Earth isn’t warming (or has slowed its warming) or
                                       that satellite temperature measurements are the best way to measure the
                                       Earth’s temperatures. In fact, satellites don’t measure temperature at
                                       all, but these witnesses didn’t mention that fact. 

                                       Additionally, the satellite measurements that they showed are from the
                                       middle of the troposphere, high in the atmosphere (not at the surface).
                                       Finally, the contrarians declined to emphasize that the synthetic
                                       satellite temperature data have been wrong for years. The upper part of
                                       the atmosphere (stratosphere) is cooling as a result of the increased
                                       greenhouse gases while the lower layer (the troposphere) is warming. If
                                       any measurements of the stratosphere bleed into the measurements of the
                                       troposphere, it can cause a cooling bias.

                                       I had the (dis)pleasure of testifying at a hearing in Minnesota where
                                       William Happer also testified. He, Roy Spencer, and Richard Lindzen all
                                       made errors in their testimony that were repeated at the Cruz
                                       congressional hearing. At the Minnesota hearing, these contrarians were
                                       representing Peabody Energy – the world’s largest private sector coal
                                       company.

                                       They focused on high-altitude temperatures in the tropical part of the
                                       globe (near the equator) rather than temperatures at the surface or in
                                       the oceans. But it gets even worse – they combined two sets of
                                       satellite data into a single curve when in reality, satellite
                                       temperature measurements differ by as much as a factor of four
                                       depending on whose data you use! 

                                       Read more...

                                       5 comments

                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                       A Rough Guide to Rainfall, Run-off and Rivers

                                       Posted on 19 January 2016 by John Mason

                                       Introduction: a moment of realisation. July 2001, North Wales, UK

                                       Pulling onto the side of the forestry road the air was thick with a
                                       single smell – that of mangled conifer wood. I locked the Land Rover
                                       and scrambled down to the river. It was a familiar route, an anglers'
                                       path that weaves its way cunningly for several tens of metres through
                                       steep, dense undergrowth. But something was different this time. The
                                       vegetation ended abruptly some way before it should have done. Where
                                       there had been soil, grass, rhododendron and bramble, naked rock now
                                       gleamed in the sunshine. Continuing down, I saw that the river, back
                                       down to its normal level, had an unusually clouded, milky look to it.
                                       Upstream was a prominent bluff of rock, several metres higher than its
                                       surroundings, on top of which a large Douglas Fir tree stood. It was
                                       still there, but the first few metres of its trunk were thickly and
                                       tightly wrapped with branches and tree trunks, their bark stripped
                                       away. Scrambling up the tight cone of flood-borne debris, I turned and
                                       looked down. It was at least ten metres from the top of the debris-wrap
                                       down to the water.

                                       July 2001, North Wales

                                       above: aftermath of a huge flash flood in July 2001, Afon Mawddach,
                                       North Wales. The figure perched on the left-hand side of the
                                       debris-wrap is a good 2 metres tall. Photo: author.

                                       Two days before, a severe thunderstorm had affected the region. Had the
                                       area been well-populated, the resulting flash floods would have made
                                       the national headlines. Houses would not just have been flooded: some
                                       would have been swept away. It served, in the author's case, to raise
                                       an awe-struck awareness of just what can happen when the required
                                       meteorological ingredients come together. You cannot beat seeing things
                                       for yourself.

                                       Why a rainfall primer?

                                       So: what makes the difference between an ordinary wet day and an
                                       extreme rainfall? Judging by the often confused and contradictory
                                       comments from online discussions in the wake of the late 2015 floods,
                                       this seems as good a time as any for a primer - the three R's of
                                       flooding if you like. Rainfall, run-off and rivers. It is aimed
                                       primarily at UK readers and a lot of the illustrated examples are from
                                       Wales, because that's where I live and they are things that I have seen
                                       for myself, but the same principles apply in many parts of the world,
                                       outside of the Tropics. Rainfalls in extratropical parts of the world
                                       have a complex set of causative factors and effects. This post takes a
                                       more detailed look at both. It is by necessity long, because you cannot
                                       realistically deal with complex topics in a few soundbites, so it has
                                       been divided into sections, linked to by the seven bookmarks below.

                                       Read more...

                                       2 comments

                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                       Ted Cruz fact check: which temperature data are the best?

                                       Posted on 18 January 2016 by dana1981

                                       The information in this post has been incorporated into the new
                                       rebuttal to the myth 'satellite [temperature] data are the best data
                                       that we have,' available at sks.to/satellite

                                       Satellites don’t measure the Earth’s temperature. Senator Ted Cruz
                                       (R-TX) and his fellow climate contrarians love the satellite data, but
                                       as Carl Mears of the Remote Sensing Systems (RSS) satellite dataset and
                                       Ben Santer recently wrote,

                                           they are not thermometers in space. The satellite [temperature]
                                           data ... were obtained from so-called Microwave Sounding Units (
                                           MSUs), which measure the microwave emissions of oxygen molecules
                                           from broad atmospheric layers. Converting this information to
                                           estimates of temperature trends has substantial uncertainties.

                                       Scientists process the raw microwave data, applying a model to make 
                                       numerous adjustments in order to come up with a synthetic estimate of
                                       the atmospheric temperature. Climate scientists have identified many
                                       errors in the model, and so it’s undergone several major revisions.
                                       It’s a complicated process for many reasons discussed in greater
                                       detail in this new Skeptical Science myth rebuttal, and by Mears and
                                       Santer. 

                                       For example, satellites have a limited lifetime and are replaced (so
                                       far there have been 10 different satellites with MSUs); the MSU
                                       instruments change - they now use advanced MSUs (AMSUs); their orbits
                                       drift and decay due to friction; clouds get in the way; they have to
                                       isolate the data from the different layers of the atmosphere, etc.

                                       In a recent Senate hearing, Ted Cruz and one of his witnesses, Judith
                                       Curry, claimed “the satellite data are the best data we have.” Most
                                       experts disagree.

                                        Video by Peter Sinclair for Yale Climate Connections.

                                       What makes “the best” the best?

                                       At first blush the claim sounds plausible. After all, satellites are
                                       high tech! But how do we decide which data are “the best”? That’s a
                                       subjective question, but we can apply some objective criteria to answer
                                       it.

                                       For example, as humans, we might consider the temperature where we live
                                       (at the Earth’s surface) the most important. Satellites estimate the
                                       temperature of the atmosphere, most of which is above us. In fact, as
                                       John Christy, who runs the University of Alabama at Huntsville (UAH)
                                       satellite dataset recently said,

                                       Read more...

                                       22 comments

                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                       A Response to the “Data or Dogma?” hearing

                                       Posted on 17 January 2016 by Ben Santer, Carl Mears

                                       Guest post (also available in PDF form) by:

                                       Benjamin D. Santer, Program for Climate Model Diagnosis and
                                       Intercomparison, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, CA.

                                       Carl Mears, Remote Sensing Systems, Santa Rosa, CA.

                                       On December 8, 2015, Senator Ted Cruz – the chairman of the Senate
                                       subcommittee on Space, Science, and Competitiveness –convened a hearing
                                       entitled “Data or Dogma?” The stated purpose of this event was to
                                       promote “…open inquiry in the debate over the magnitude of human impact
                                       on Earth’s climate” (1). In the course of the hearing, the chairman and
                                       several expert witnesses claimed that satellite temperature data
                                       falsify both “apocalyptic models” and findings of human effects on
                                       climate by “alarmist” scientists. Such accusations are serious but
                                       baseless. The hearing was more political theatrics than a deep dive
                                       into climate science.  

                                       Satellite-derived temperature data were a key item of evidence at the
                                       hearing. One of the witnesses [a] for the majority side of the Senate
                                       subcommittee showed the changes (over roughly the last 35 years) in
                                       satellite- and weather balloon-based measurements of the temperature of
                                       the mid-troposphere (TMT), a layer of the atmosphere extending from the
                                       Earth’s surface to roughly 18 km (2). Satellite TMT measurements are
                                       available from late 1978 to present. Observed TMT data were compared
                                       with TMT estimates from a large number of model simulations. This
                                       comparison was ‘Exhibit A’ for the majority side of the subcommittee.

                                       Senator Cruz used Exhibit A as the underpinning for the following chain
                                       of arguments: 1) Satellite TMT data do not show any significant warming
                                       over the last 18 years, and are more reliable than temperature
                                       measurements at Earth’s surface; 2) The apparent “pause” in
                                       tropospheric warming is independently corroborated by weather balloon
                                       temperatures; 3) Climate models show pronounced TMT increases over the
                                       “pause” period; and 4) The mismatch between modeled and observed
                                       tropospheric warming in the early 21^st century has only one possible
                                       explanation – computer models are a factor of three too sensitive to
                                       human-caused changes in greenhouse gases (GHGs). Based on this chain of
                                       reasoning, Senator Cruz concluded that satellite data falsify all
                                       climate models, that the planet is not warming, and that humans do not
                                       impact climate.

                                       This logic is wrong. First, satellites do not provide direct
                                       measurements of atmospheric temperature: they are not thermometers in
                                       space. The satellite TMT data plotted in Exhibit A were obtained from
                                       so-called Microwave Sounding Units (MSUs), which measure the microwave
                                       emissions of oxygen molecules from broad atmospheric layers (2-4).[b]
                                       Converting this information to estimates of temperature trends has
                                       substantial uncertainties.[c] The major uncertainties arise because the
                                       satellite TMT record is based on measurements made by over 10 different
                                       satellites, most of which experience orbital decay (5) and orbital
                                       drift (6-8) over their lifetimes. These orbital changes affect the
                                       measurements of microwave emissions, primarily due to gradual shifts in
                                       the time of day at which measurements are made. As the scientific
                                       literature clearly documents, the adjustments for such shifts in
                                       measurement time are large,[d] and involve many subjective decisions
                                       (2-4, 6-8). Further adjustments to the raw data are necessary for
                                       drifts in the on-board calibration of the microwave measurements (9,
                                       10), and for the transition between earlier and more sophisticated
                                       versions of the MSUs.[e]

                                       Read more...

                                       5 comments

                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                       2016 SkS Weekly Digest #3

                                       Posted on 17 January 2016 by John Hartz

                                       SkS Highlights... El Nin~o Impacts... Toon of the Week... Quote of the
                                       Week... Rebuttal Article Update... They Said What?... SkS Spotlights...
                                       Coming Soon on SkS... Poster of the Week... SkS Week in Review... 97
                                       Hours of Consensus...

                                       SkS Highlights

                                       The Quest for CCS by Andy Skuce (Corporate Knights) generated the
                                       highest number of comments of the articles posted on SkS during the
                                       past week. NASA study fixes error in low contrarian climate sensitivity
                                       estimates by Dana Nuccitelli (Climate Consensus -the 97%, The Guardian)
                                       attracted the second highst number.

                                       El Nin~o Impacts

                                       The world may have been jolted out of its inertia to get its act
                                       together and tackle climate change, but global temperatures are not
                                       holding still. So the heavy woollens languishing in the closet may not
                                       be the worst thing that can happen. The unbearable summer could get
                                       hotter, with little respite. While 2015 has been recorded as the
                                       hottest year, meteorologists say 2016 will be warmer.

                                       Climate change, El Nin~o & Pacific Decadal Oscillation could result to
                                       unbearable summer this year by Urmi Goswami, Economic Times, Jan 16,
                                       2016

                                       Toon of the Week

                                        2016 Toon 3

                                       Hat tip to I Heart Climate Scientists

                                       Read more...

                                       0 comments

                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                       2016 SkS Weekly News Roundup #3

                                       Posted on 16 January 2016 by John Hartz

                                       A chronological listing of the news articles posted on the Skeptical
                                       Science Facebook page during the past week.

                                       Sun Jan 10

                                         • Western Australia Wildfire Brings Widespread Destruction by Brian
                                           Kahn, Climate Central, Jan 8, 2016
                                         • Why climate change is an ethical problem by Stephen Gardiner, In
                                           Theory, Washington Post, Jan 9, 2016
                                         • El Nin~o making snow now, but climate change 'loads dice' for
                                           warmer future winters by Benjamin Spillman, Reno Gazette-Journal,
                                           Jan 9, 2016
                                         • Environmental Change Rate Unprecedented, Study Says  by James
                                           Crugnale, The Weather Channel, Jan 7, 2016
                                         • The Company Behind LA's Methane Disaster Knew Its Well Was Leaking
                                           24 Years Ago by Melissa Cronin, Motherboard, Jan 8, 2016
                                         • Dawn of the Anthropocene: five ways we know humans have triggered a
                                           new geological epoch by Jan A. Zalasiewicz & Mark Williams, The
                                           Conversation AU, Jan 8, 2016
                                         • Revealed: scientists warn climate changes means wild weather in
                                           Scotland is the 'new normal' by Rob Edwards, The Herald, Jan 9,
                                           2016
                                         • Cash for the Climate Please, Caribbean Leaders Lament by Desmond
                                           Brown, Inter Press Serice (IPS), Jan 8, 2016

                                       Read more...

                                       1 comments

                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                       If Done Correctly, Refuting Climate Myths can be an Effective
                                       Educational Strategy

                                       Posted on 15 January 2016 by ProfMandia

                                       I have been teaching MET103 – Global Climate Change to undergraduate
                                       liberal arts students for five years. The course description appears
                                       below:

                                           The impact of global climate change is far-reaching, both for
                                           humanity and the environment. This course will provide students
                                           with the scientific background to understand the role of natural
                                           and human-forced climate change so that they are better prepared to
                                           become involved in the discussion. Students will learn how past
                                           climates are determined and why humans are causing most of the
                                           observed modern day warming. The technical and political solutions
                                           to climate change will also be discussed.

                                       It is pretty much a given that most young people today are aware that
                                       humans are causing the planet to warm. That was not true when I first
                                       began teaching this course in 2010. Anonymous surveys revealed there
                                       were still some students who either thought global warming was not
                                       happening or if it were, humans were not responsible. The biggest
                                       surprise for students now is how sensitive the planet and its species
                                       are to even small temperature increases. They are also surprised that
                                       there are still those who do not believe humans are causing climate
                                       disruption and they feel empowered to challenge those individuals who
                                       are often older family members.

                                       One requirement of the course is to visit Skeptical Science’s Global
                                       Warming & Climate Change Myths – a collection of the most often
                                       propagated climate science myths and misinformation, and write a term
                                       paper that summarizes the myth in a way that will convince a doubter to
                                       change his or her position. About mid-way into the semester, I use one
                                       lecture period to discuss why misinformation exists and how to properly
                                       debunk that information. I present a talk I gave at the 2015 Geological
                                       Society of America (GSA) Annual Meeting as well as Cook and
                                       Lewandowsky’s The Debunking Handbook in order for students to learn how
                                       to avoid the various backfire effects that can occur when debunking
                                       misinformation. Students also have access to a grade rubric to
                                       understand what is expected for top marks.

                                       Students are taught that the most effective myth refutation strategy
                                       includes:

                                         • Lead with the facts
                                         • Keep arguments simple and few
                                         • Warn listener before stating myth
                                         • Provide a more credible alternative
                                         • Message must align with person’s cultural world-view

                                       The paper below is from the Fall 2015 semester and represents the
                                       success of this approach. The author has given Skeptical Science
                                       permission to post his term paper.

                                       Why the Time to Act on Climate Change is Now by Trevor Lipp

                                       I also recommend reading Raising Climate Literacy Through Addressing
                                       Misinformation: Case Studies in Agnotology-Based Learning by Cook,
                                       Weber, and Mandia (2014) for more examples of effective refutation
                                       techniques.

                                       Read more...

                                       0 comments

                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                       Kids ask US presidential candidates to debate science

                                       Posted on 14 January 2016 by Guest Author

                                       Shawn Otto is a science writer and chair of ScienceDebate.org

                                       Susanlyn Singroy thinks the candidates for US president should be
                                       debating science. The eighth-grader argues that the candidates are
                                       talking about money, religion and immigration, but rarely mentioning
                                       the science challenges impacting her future. Singroy says,

                                           If they talk about the big science issues, maybe they’ll actually
                                           do something about them.

                                       Her point is well taken. The Republican and Democratic candidates for
                                       president both held debates just days after the Paris climate summit,
                                       yet the debate moderators didn’t ask a single question about climate
                                       science—remarkable considering that climate change has emerged as a
                                       major global science, economic, environmental, tech, civil
                                       infrastructure, and foreign policy challenge. US journalists have
                                       similarly avoided asking the candidates about other major science,
                                       health, tech, and environmental issues.

                                       So Susan, who wants to be a scientist, decided to volunteer with other
                                       kids to create what may be the most memorable political ad you’ll see
                                       all year:

                                       I’m chair of sciencedebate.org, the volunteer-run nonprofit that
                                       produced the ad. We’re working with Susanlyn and other kids elevate
                                       these issues in the US political dialogue, because they
                                       disproportionately affect the next generation. 

                                       Candidates for president attend debates dedicated to economics and
                                       foreign policy, but science issues now have an equal or greater impact.
                                       Voters—and their kids—deserve a nationally televised discussion
                                       dedicated to science, health, tech and the environment.

                                       Read more...

                                       3 comments

                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                       The Quest for CCS

                                       Posted on 13 January 2016 by Andy Skuce

                                       This article was originally published online at Corporate Knights and
                                       will appear in the hard copy Winter 2016 Edition of the Corporate
                                       Knights Magazine, which is to be included  as a supplement to the Globe
                                       and Mail and Washington Post later in January 2016. The photograph used
                                       in the original was changed for copyright reasons.

                                       Human civilization developed over a period of 10,000 years during which
                                       global average surface temperatures remained remarkably stable,
                                       hovering within one degree Celsius of where they are today.

                                       If we are to keep future temperatures from getting far outside that
                                       range, humanity will be forced to reduce fossil fuel emissions to zero
                                       by 2050. Halving our emissions is not good enough: we need to get down
                                       to zero to stay under the 2 C target that scientists and policy makers
                                       have identified as the limit beyond which global warming becomes
                                       dangerous.

                                       [questbus]Shell boasting about its government-funded Quest CCS project,
                                       on a Toronto bus. (Photo: rustneversleeps) "Shell Quest captures over
                                       one-third of our oil sands upgrader emissions"

                                       Many scenarios have been proposed to get us there. Some of these
                                       involve rapid deployment of solar and wind power in conjunction with
                                       significant reductions in the amount of energy we consume.

                                       However, many of the economists and experts who have developed
                                       scenarios for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
                                       believe that the only way to achieve the two-degree goal in a growing
                                       world economy is to invest in large-scale carbon capture and storage
                                       (CCS) projects. These technologies capture carbon dioxide from the
                                       exhausts of power stations and industrial plants and then permanently
                                       store it, usually by injecting it into underground rock layers.

                                       Even with massive deployment of CCS over coming decades, most scenarios
                                       modelled by the IPCC overshoot the carbon budget and require that in
                                       the latter part of the century, we actually take more carbon out of the
                                       atmosphere than we put into it. Climate expert Kevin Anderson of the
                                       Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research at the University of
                                       Manchester recently reported in Nature Geoscience that, of the 400 IPCC
                                       emissions scenarios used in the 2014 Working Group report to keep
                                       warming below two degrees, some 344 require the deployment of negative
                                       emissions technologies after 2050. The other 56 models assumed that we
                                       would start rapidly reducing emissions in 2010 (which, of course, did
                                       not happen). In other words, negative emissions are required in all of
                                       the IPCC scenarios that are still current.

                                       One favoured negative emissions technology is bioenergy with carbon
                                       capture and storage (BECCS). This involves burning biomass – such as
                                       wood pellets – in power stations, then capturing the carbon dioxide and
                                       burying it deep in the earth. The technology has not yet been
                                       demonstrated at an industrial scale. Using the large amounts of
                                       bioenergy envisioned in such scenarios will place huge demands on land
                                       use and will conflict with agriculture and biodiversity needs.

                                       Read more...

                                       48 comments

                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                       NASA study fixes error in low contrarian climate sensitivity estimates

                                       Posted on 12 January 2016 by dana1981

                                       Climate sensitivity – the amount of global surface warming we’ll see as
                                       a result of rising atmospheric carbon dioxide levels – has become
                                       contrarians’ favorite basis to argue against cutting carbon pollution.
                                       If the Earth’s climate is relatively insensitive to rising carbon
                                       levels, then it’s somewhat less urgent that we stop burning massive
                                       quantities of fossil fuels. However, a new NASA study indicates that’s
                                       not the case.

                                       There are a few different ways that climate scientists estimate the
                                       Earth’s sensitivity to rising carbon. When they look at climate changes
                                       in the distant past (paleoclimate), and at simulations from complex
                                       climate models, they get about the same result: if the amount of carbon
                                       dioxide in the atmosphere doubles, temperatures will rise between 2DEGC
                                       and 4.5DEGC, most likely 3DEGC.

                                       However, a few studies in recent years using a third method have
                                       yieldedsomewhat lower results. This method uses recent measurements of
                                       temperature and heat changes, combined with estimates of how “forcings”
                                       like the increased greenhouse effect have caused the Earth’s energy
                                       balance to change, all input into somewhat simpler climate models.

                                       These results caused the latest IPCC report to drop its lower estimate
                                       of the likely climate sensitivity to double carbon dioxide from 2DEGC
                                       to 1.5DEGC. Climate scientists were faced with the question, why did
                                       this third approach (known as the “energy budget approach”) yield
                                       somewhat lower results than others, and which estimate is right?

                                       A new study by Kate Marvel, Gavin Schmidt, Ron Miller, and Larissa
                                       Nazarenko at the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies appears to
                                       have found the answer. They drew upon previous research by Drew
                                       Shindell and Kummer & Dessler, who identified a flaw in studies taking
                                       the energy budget approach. Those studies had assumed that the Earth’s
                                       climate is equally sensitive to all forcings.

                                       In reality, as world-renowned climate scientist James Hansen noted in a
                                       1997 paper, some forcings are more efficient at causing the Earth’s
                                       surface temperature to change than others. Those in which the effects
                                       are focused in the northern hemisphere tend to be more efficient, for
                                       example. Andrew Dessler explains in the video below.

                                       Andrew Dessler explains the flaw in studies suggesting climate
                                       sensitivity is low.

                                       Read more...

                                       3 comments

                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                       Surface Temperature or Satellite Brightness?

                                       Posted on 11 January 2016 by Kevin C

                                       There are several ways to take the temperature of the earth. We can use
                                       direct measurements by thermometers to measure air or sea surface
                                       temperatures. We can measure the temperature of the surface itself
                                       using infrared cameras, either from the ground or from space. Or we can
                                       use satellites to measure the microwave brightness of different layers
                                       of the atmosphere.

                                       In a recent senate subcommittee hearing the claim was made that
                                       microwave brightness temperatures provide a more reliable measure of
                                       temperature change than thermometers. There are two issues with this
                                       claim:

                                        1. Microwaves do not measure the temperature of the surface, where we
                                           live. They measure the warm glow from different layers of the
                                           atmosphere.
                                        2. The claim that microwave temperature estimates are more accurate is
                                           backed by many arguments but no data.

                                       Scientific arguments should be based in evidence, so the aim of this
                                       article is to investigate whether there is evidence for one record
                                       being more reliable than the other. If we want to determine which
                                       record is more useful for determining the change in temperature over
                                       time, we need to look at the uncertainties in the temperatures records.

                                       Trends in surface and satellite data

                                       Let's look at the period 1979-2012, covering the period from the
                                       beginning of the satellite record and ending 3 years ago. We will look
                                       at two datasets: the satellite data from Remote Sensing Systems (RSS),
                                       and a surface temperature dataset from the UK Met Office (HadCRUT4).
                                       The satellite data cover several layers of the atmosphere, so we'll use
                                       the data for the lowest layer, the 'TLT' or lower troposphere record,
                                       which measures temperatures over a region around 4 kilometers above the
                                       surface.

                                       As a first step, we will calculate the trend for both the satellite and
                                       surface temperature data. The temperature changes and their trends are
                                       shown in Figure 1.

                                       Figure 1: Satellite and surface temperature series.

                                       Figure 1: Temperature series for the period 1979-2012 for the RSS
                                       satellite record (left) and the HadCRUT4 surface temperature record
                                       (right). Grey crosses indicate monthly temperatures. Red lines are 12
                                       month moving averages. The blue lines are the linear trends, and the
                                       light blue curves indicate the 2σ confidence intervals for the trends.
                                       The values of the trends and their standard errors are shown above the
                                       graph (method).

                                       Read more...

                                       31 comments

                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                       2016 SkS Weekly Digest #2

                                       Posted on 10 January 2016 by John Hartz

                                       SkS Highlights... El Nin~o Impacts... Toon of the Week... Quote of the
                                       Week... He Said What?... SkS in the News... SkS Spotlights... Coming
                                       Soon on SkS... Poster of the Week... SkS Week in Review... 97 Hours of
                                       Consensus...

                                       SkS Highlights

                                       Why is the largest Earth science conference still sponsored by Exxon?
                                        by Ploy Achakulwisut, Ben Scandella & Britta Voss (Climate Consensus -
                                       the 97%, The Guardian) generated the highest number of comments of the
                                       articles posted on SkS during the past week. 

                                       Latest data shows cooling Sun, warming Earth by Mark R and 95%
                                       consensus of expert economists: cut carbon pollution by Dana
                                       Nuccitelli (Climate Consensus - the 97%, The Guardian) each attracted
                                       the second highest number of comments. 

                                       El Nin~o Impacts

                                       Briefing United Nations Member States today on the widely varied and
                                       devastating impacts of the current El Nin~o weather phenomenon – which
                                       for months has sparked massive floods in some countries while leaving
                                       others, often in the same region, bone dry – the top UN relief official
                                       urged the international community to act now to help millions of people
                                       facing food insecurity.

                                       “We are here to re-sound the alarm; to spur a collective response to
                                       the humanitarian suffering caused by changes in weather patterns linked
                                       to El Nin~o and to take action now to mitigate its effects,” said
                                       Stephen O'Brien, the UN Under-Secretary-General for the Coordination of
                                       Humanitarian Affairs, who added: “If we act now, we will save lives and
                                       livelihoods and prevent an even more serious humanitarian emergency
                                       from taking hold.”

                                       He said that in some regions, millions of people are already facing
                                       food insecurity caused by droughts related to El Nin~o. “In other parts
                                       of the world, we have a short window of opportunity now to prepare for
                                       what we know will happen within months. In both cases, we must act
                                       together and we must act quickly,” he stressed.

                                       El Nin~o has put world in 'uncharted territory,' UN relief chief says,
                                       urging action now to mitigate impacts, UN News Centre, Jan 7, 2016

                                       Toon of the Week

                                        2016 Toon 2

                                       Hat tip to I Heart Climate Scientists

                                       Read more...

                                       0 comments

                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                       2016 SkS Weekly News Roundup #2

                                       Posted on 9 January 2016 by John Hartz

                                       A chronological listing of the news articles posted on the Skeptical
                                       Science Facebook page during the past week.

                                       Sun Jan 3

                                         • Even Tumbling Fossil Fuel Prices Can't Deter Clean Energy
                                           Revolution by Deirdre Fulton, Common Dreams, Jan 1, 2016
                                         • The Dirty Truth About ‘Clean Diesel, Op-ed by Taras Grescoe, Sunday
                                           Review, New York Times, Jan 2, 2016
                                         • Electrifying India, With the Sun and Small Loans by Max Bearak,
                                           Energy & Environment, New York Times, Jan 2, 2016
                                         • Electric vehicles beat gasoline cars in cradle-to-grave emissions
                                           study by Jerry Hirsch, Los Angeles Times, Jan 3, 2016
                                         • Climate change targets 'have huge implications for UK pensioners'
                                            by Tom Bawden, Independent, Jan 3, 2016

                                       Read more...

                                       1 comments

                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                       AGU’s Sharing Science is helping scientists talk to the rest of us

                                       Posted on 8 January 2016 by John Abraham

                                       In our society today, science serves numerous vital roles, and
                                       scientists are making our lives better. From natural hazards to natural
                                       resources, and from climate change to planetary science, Earth and
                                       space scientists serve especially crucial roles. Providing them with
                                       the tools they need to effectively communicate the facts of their
                                       research so that policymakers, business leaders, and the public can
                                       make informed decisions is crucial. 

                                       Despite the important role science plays, we scientists are often
                                       stereotyped as uninterested or incapable of translating our work into
                                       something the public can understand. To the contrary, many of us who
                                       would otherwise be interested in communicating our science to broad
                                       audiences often find ourselves lacking the necessary training. 

                                       The absence of formal training opportunities is perplexing problem, as
                                       scientists have much to offer society as a whole. Where departments and
                                       institutions fall short in providing training, for Earth and space
                                       scientists at least, the American Geophysical Union’s (AGU) Sharing
                                       Science Program fills that gap.

                                       AGU is a society with nearly 60,000 members worldwide, devoted to
                                       promoting discovery in Earth and space science for the benefit of
                                       society. It hosts the world’s largest Earth science meeting, held each
                                       December in the USA. In addition to its core mission, AGU is dedicated
                                       to the promotion of science to a larger audience. To fill that role,
                                       AGU created the Sharing Science program. 

                                       The Sharing Science network is composed of scientists from around the
                                       world who are passionate about sharing their science with broad
                                       audiences. Members range from undergraduates who are looking for advice
                                       on how fit science communication into their career path, to researchers
                                       who want to express the value of their work to lawmakers and
                                       legislators, to tenured professors who never received formal training
                                       in science communication but are now realizing the value of translating
                                       their work into plain English.

                                       The program encompasses all of the resources and opportunities needed
                                       to help scientists effectively communicate with broader audiences —
                                       including journalists, educators and students, policymakers, and the
                                       public — about Earth and space science and its importance. It includes
                                       interactive workshops, webinars, toolkits and more to help scientists
                                       understand their audience’s needs and to improve their communications
                                       skills. 

                                       Read more...

                                       4 comments

                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                       Carbon Brief’s 15 numbers for 2015

                                       Posted on 7 January 2016 by Guest Author

                                       This is a re-post from Carbon Brief

                                       Carbon Brief takes a look at 2015’s top climate stories through the
                                       medium of numbers. Here are our top 15.

                                       1.5C limit

                                       Over the last 12 months, after years of taking the back seat, the idea
                                       of a 1.5C limit to global temperatures made steps into the limelight.
                                       The UN concluded its review of the 2C vs 1.5C debate, suggesting that
                                       the lower limit would be “preferable”. A study found that the 1.5C
                                       target was still technically possible, though difficult. A guest post
                                        by Prof Myles Allen looks at the chances and the challenge ahead,
                                       while Carbon Brief alsocaptured the views of a broad range of
                                       scientists.

                                       The mounting pressure paid off, with the goal recognised in the final
                                       UN climate deal. So unexpected was its inclusion that climate
                                       scientists were “caught napping”, saysProf Piers Forster, in another 
                                       guest post which surveys the task ahead of finding pathways towards the
                                       lower limit, and the specific benefits of this long sought-after goal.

                                       188 pledges

                                       Over the course of the year, 188 countries submitted their “intended
                                       nationally determined contributions”, or INDCs, to the UN. These
                                       pledges, which outline how nations plan to reduce emissions, form the
                                       backbone of the new UN climate deal. Carbon Brief has been tracking
                                        these promises of action, and the money that they will cost to
                                       implement — a grand total of $3.5tn. We have also looked in-depth at
                                       the ambiguities and ambition of the major economies, including the EU, 
                                       the US, Russia,Canada, China, Japan,  Brazil, Indonesia, Australia and 
                                       India.

                                       Probably the most oft-repeated trope of 2015 was that these INDCs would
                                       not alone be enough to limit global temperature rise to below 2C. But
                                       according to a report from the UN Environment Programme, the INDCs had
                                       political significance that can’t be expressed by mere numbers.

                                       Read more...

                                       4 comments

                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                       Why is the largest Earth science conference still sponsored by Exxon?

                                       Posted on 6 January 2016 by Guest Author

                                       Ploy Achakulwisut is a PhD candidate in atmospheric chemistry at
                                       Harvard University. Ben Scandella is a PhD candidate in environmental
                                       science at MIT. Britta Voss earned a PhD in Earth science from MIT and
                                       the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.

                                       “Thank You to Our Sponsors: ExxonMobil, Chevron, Shell...” This was the
                                       first message to greet us upon arrival at the 2015 American Geophysical
                                       Union (AGU) fall meeting - the world’s largest gathering of Earth and
                                       space scientists.

                                       agu sponsor board

                                       AGU 2015 fall meeting “Thank you to our sponsors” board.

                                       As aspiring and early career environmental scientists, this was a
                                       dismaying welcome, for we are immensely disturbed and angered by the
                                       well-documented complicity of these companies in climate denial and
                                       disinformation. For example, recent investigative journalism has shed
                                       light on the fact that ExxonMobil,informed by their in-house
                                       scientists, has known about the devastating global warming effects of
                                       fossil fuel burning since the late 1970s, but spent the next decades
                                       funding disinformation campaigns to confuse the public, slander
                                       scientists, and sabotage science - the very science conducted by
                                       thousands of AGU members. Even today, ExxonMobil and Chevron continue
                                       to fund the American Legislative Exchange Council, a lobbying group
                                       that routinely misrepresents climate science to US state legislators
                                       and attempts to block pro-renewable energy policies.

                                       Read more...

                                       27 comments

                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                       Latest data shows cooling Sun, warming Earth

                                       Posted on 5 January 2016 by MarkR

                                       Lots of studies into the Sun-climate link have reported that recent
                                       changes in the heat output by the Sun are simply too small to explain
                                       much of the recent global warming. Even 5 years ago it was clear that
                                       Earth's temperature isn't tracking solar activity very well.

                                       And now including data up to 2015, that pattern is even clearer. In
                                       each case the 2015 result is based on slightly incomplete data: up to
                                       end-November for temperature and mid-October for solar activity. It
                                       shows that in the 5 years since we first published a version of the
                                       figure below, Earth's surface has continued to warm despite declining
                                       solar activity.

                                       Temperature versus solar activity with PMOD

                                       Data sources: temperature, solar activity pre-1978, solar activity
                                       1978-onwards.

                                       The temperature record is from NASA and the solar heat output arriving
                                       at the top of Earth's atmosphere, the "Total Solar Irradiance" comes
                                       from two sources. From 1978 we have satellite measurements, in this
                                       case from PMOD (data here). Before that, the heat output was not
                                       measured directly, but instead it has to be estimated from measurements
                                       of sunspots, which look something like this.

                                       Read more...

                                       9 comments

(C) Copyright 2016 John Cook
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━           * ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ * ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Home | Links | Translations | About Us | Contact Us
