logo

  • About 
  • Our Mission
  • FAQ
  • News
  • Contact
  • Links
  • Share
  • visit
  • follow

The Debate Is Over The Debate Is Over The Debate Is Over There Is A Strong And
Growing Scientific Consensus That Global Warming Is Real Learn More
image 1 image 1
skip animation replay animation
The Debate Is Over
EVERY YEAR more and more peer-reviewed scientific papers have concluded that
global warming is happening and is caused primarily by our actions
[redArrow]
source [greyArrow]
MEANWHILE the number of papers that disagree have remained tiny by comparison
What is peer-review, and why is it important? When a paper has been
peer-reviewed, that means it has been evaluated by a number of qualified
scientists and found to have followed legitimate scientific methods. Most of
the claims that are made by global warming skeptics on TV, in print, and online
are not based on legitimate science.
LEARN MORE
about the consensus
about the causes
about the solutions
skip animation replay animation
The Debate Is Over The Debate Is Over The Debate Is Over The Debate Is Over The
Debate Is Over The Debate Is Over The Debate Is Over The Debate Is Over The
Debate Is Over The Debate Is Over The Debate Is Over The Debate Is Over
NORMALLY greenhouse gasses in our atmosphere trap some of the sun's heat,
keeping our planet warm like a blanket. Without greenhouse gasses the entire
Earth would be permanently frozen
[redArrow] [greyArrow]
BURNING FOSSIL FUELS add additional greenhouse gasses to the atmosphere that
would not normally be there
[greyArrow]
THESE ADDITIONAL GASSES trap more of the sun's heat, warming our air, land, and
water
GLOBAL WARMING IS HARMFUL because it upsets the natural balance of the Earth,
shifting weather patterns, causing droughts, extreme weather events and rising
oceans. It will cause enormous damage to our economy and our way of life, for
centuries to come. The effects are already being seen today
The Debate Is Over
LEARN MORE
about the consensus
about the solutions
about the solutions
The Debate Is Over
FOSSIL FUEL USE MUST BE STOPPED as quickly as possible unless we run the risk
of runaway temperature increases, and an Earth inhospitable to human life
source info
USING RENEWABLE ENERGY such as wind and solar power will decrease the amount of
additional greenhouse gases we put into the atmosphere, limiting the damage to
our environment source info
RENEWABLE ENERGY COSTS are about equal to-and in some cases cheaper than-most
forms of fossil fuels. Switching our economy to renewable energy will create
thousands of new jobs and industries, and will benefit our society for
generations to come
source 1, source 2
LEARN MORE
about the consensus
about the causes
about the solutions

Skeptical Science Graphics by Skeptical Science is licensed under a Creative
Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License.
Based on a work at www.skepticalscience.com.

Tweet
The Consensus Project measured the level of consensus in published,
peer-reviewed climate research that humans are causing global warming. In the
most comprehensive analysis to date, we analysed 21 years worth of
peer-reviewed papers on “global warming” or “global climate change”. Among the
12,465 papers, we identified over 4,014 abstracts authored by 10,188 scientists
that stated a position on human-caused global warming. Among those 4,014
abstracts, 97.1% endorse the consensus. Among the 10,188 scientists, 98.4%
endorse the consensus. Read the full paper here.

The overwhelming consensus is consistent with a number of other studies that
have found similar results (follow the link below for more details). The
Consensus Project is one indicator among many that there is a consensus of
evidence and a consensus of scientists, all agreeing that humans are causing
global warming.

Other Indications Of Consensus
The Consensus Project is a peer-reviewed citizen science driven project
conducted by volunteers at the Skeptical Science website. Skepticalscience.com
was created and is run by John Cook, climate communication research fellow at
the Global Change Institute, University of Queensland.

Skeptical Science University Of Queensland GC IQ

The website is the product of a community of scientists and other volunteers
scattered across the globe, united in their dedication to communicate climate
science. Using peer-reviewed science, it plays an active role in debunking
climate misinformation published across the spectrum of media, including TV,
online, and print. In 2011, Skeptical Science won the Australian Museum’s
Eureka Prize for the Advancement of Climate Change Knowledge.
http://www.sjiassociates.com

Website design was contributed pro bono by SJI Associates, a New York City
based design and advertising firm passionate about climate issues.

Other Indicators Of Consensus A number of studies have measured the scientific
consensus on climate change. A 2009 survey by Peter Doran found that for the
most qualified experts, climate scientists currently publishing climate
research, there was 97% agreement that humans were causing global warming.

This result is echoed in a separate study led by William Anderegg. Among
scientists who had signed public declarations on climate change, both
supporting and rejecting the consensus. Among scientists who had published
peer-reviewed papers on climate change, there was a 97% consensus.

While individual scientists may have their personal views on climate change,
they must back up their opinions with evidence that withstands the scrutiny of
experts in the field. Naomi Oreskes conducted the seminal study of
peer-reviewed climate research in 2004, analysing “global climate change”
papers from 1993 to 2003. Out of the 928 papers, none were found that rejected
the consensus.

The Consensus Project continues and extends the work of Oreskes. We expanded
her analysis to span 21 years, 1991 to 2011. We included “global warming”
papers as well as “global climate change”, swelling the number of papers to
over 12,000. We confirmed Oreskes’ result, finding no rejections among “global
climate change” papers from 1993 to 2003. We also found a strengthening
consensus over the 21 year period and 97% agreement among abstracts stating a
position on human-caused global warming.

pies
Source Info
pies
Source Info
pies
Source Info
About The Consensus
Why consensus matters: the Consensus Gap There is a large gap between the
public perception of consensus on anthropogenic global warming (AGW) and the
reality of 97% agreement among climate scientists. This “Consensus Gap” has
real-world implications. Research into climate change attitudes has found that
a correct perception of scientific consensus is linked to support for climate
policy. In other words, when people don’t realize there’s a scientific
consensus, they’re less likely to support climate action. This underscores the
importance of closing the Consensus Gap.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

pies

the media
gives the very small number of skeptics a disproportionate
amount of media attention,
considering the overwhelming
scientific consensus agreeing
with AGW.
source info
pies

the public
is then effectively confused
and misinformed on the
science behind AGW.
source 1, source 2
pies

the science
meanwhile has come out overwhelmingly in agreement over the causes of global
warming. This has not been conveyed through the media, and is little-known
among the public at large.
source 1, source 2, source 3


━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

our mission is to communicate the overwhelming scientific agreement on
anthropogenic (human-caused) global warming to the public at large. We do not
endorse any specific political party or agenda, nor any specific set of
policies. We seek only to educate and inform.
Frequently Asked Questions


The following answers are to questions regarding the paper, Quantifying the
Consensus on
Anthropogenic Global Warming in the Scientific Literature, published in the
journal
Environmental Research Letters on May 15, 2013.



  • Methodology Questions
  • Who contributed to The Consensus Project?
  • How did you independently check your results?
  • What is the significance of the papers that express no position on
    human-caused global warming?
  • Did your paper include all climate papers?
  • How did the level of consensus differ across different research areas?
  • How broad is the consensus?
  • Philosophical Questions
  • Why does consensus matter?
  • Isn’t science decided by evidence?
  • What other indicators of consensus are there?



Methodology Questions


Who contributed to The Consensus Project?

The Consensus Project was a citizen-science effort that took over a year from
beginning of the project until submission of the paper to the journal
Environmental Research Letters. 24 volunteers contributed to the rating of the
papers. Half of the raters completed 97.4% of the ratings. All of the major
contributors to the project are named as co-authors or thanked by name in the
Acknowledgements of the full paper.

In order to invite scientists to self-rate the level of endorsement of their
own papers, 40 volunteers helped collect over 8,000 scientists’ emails. A total
of 1,200 scientists responded to the invitation with over 2,000 papers each
receiving a rating from the paper’s author.

It was very important to the volunteers at The Consensus Project that our
published paper be freely available to the public (unfortunately, many
peer-reviewed papers are hidden behind a pay-wall). For this reason, we chose
the high-impact journal Environmental Research Letters, which charged a $1,600
fee to enable the paper to be open-access. This fee was crowd-funded by
donations from Skeptical Science readers. The funds were raised in 9 hours.

The importance of raising awareness of the scientific consensus on climate
change cannot be overstated. Typically, the general public think around 50% of
climate scientists agree that humans are causing global warming. The Consensus
Project has shown that the reality is 97%. To help “close the consensus gap”,
the website TheConsensusProject.com was created pro-bono by the New York-based
design and advertising agency, SJI Associates.


How did you independently check your results?

Nobody is more qualified to judge a paper’s intent than the actual scientists
who authored the paper. To provide an independent measure of the level of
consensus, we asked the scientists who authored the climate papers to rate the
level of endorsement of their own papers. Among all papers that were self-rated
as expressing a position on human-caused warming, 97.2% endorsed the consensus.
This result is consistent with our abstract ratings, which found a 97.1%
consensus.

We adopted several methodologies to eliminate the potential of bias in our
abstract ratings. We developed a strict methodology (see the Supplementary
Material for more details) specifying how to categorise each abstract. In
addition, each abstract was rated by at least two separate raters, with any
conflicts resolved by a third reviewer.

The entire database of 12,464 papers is available in the  Supplementary Data.
We have also published all our abstract ratings, which are available via a
search form. You can also download an anonymised set of the self-ratings from
the authors of the papers.

We have also created an Interactive Rating System, encouraging people to rate
the papers themselves and compare their ratings to ours. We welcome criticism
of our work and we expect that further scrutiny will improve the reliability of
our results. By encourage more interaction, we hope people will come to
appreciate the diversity and richness of climate research.


What is the significance of the papers that express no position on human-caused
global warming?

Naomi Oreskes predicted in 2007 that as human-caused global warming became
settled science, fewer papers would see the need to explicitly endorse the
consensus. For example, no research papers on geography currently need to state
that the Earth is round. Our results confirm this prediction: As the field
progresses, scientists feel less and less need to waste the valuable real
estate of the paper’s abstract with an affirmation of settled science.

Moreover, most of papers that expressed "no position" in the abstract went on
to endorse the consensus in the full paper. We determined this by asking
scientists to rate the level of endorsement of their own papers - a way of
rating the full paper rather than just the abstract. More than half of the
papers that were rated as "no position" based on their abstract were self-rated
as endorsing the consensus.


Did your paper include all climate papers?

Our analysis of 12,464 abstracts is the most comprehensive analysis of climate
research to date. Nevertheless, a common comment we received from the
scientists who rated their own papers was that we didn’t include all their
climate research. Some even sent us their publication record and CV!

It’s certainly true that there is a great deal more published climate research
than the 12,464 abstracts matching the search terms “global climate change” or
“global warming”. For example, a search of the Web of Science for “climate
change” articles from 1991 to 2011 yields 43,650 papers while a search for
“climate” results in over 128,656 papers.

It is possible that a broader search would find more papers rejecting
human-caused global warming. However, it is expected that an expanded search
would also produce a great deal more papers endorsing the consensus. This is an
interesting area for future research. A broader search would allow analysis of
how consensus has evolved going further back into the past, to examine when the
consensus formed in the scientific literature.


How did the level of consensus differ across different research areas?

The 12,464 climate papers we analysed covered a diverse range of topics
(readers are strongly encouraged to use our Interactive Rating System to
experience first hand the breadth and depth of climate research). Scientists
were categorised as writing research on Impacts, Paleoclimate, Mitigation or
Methods. The consensus levels among the scientists across these different
categories of research were all 97% or higher:

The issue of consensus across different areas of research is something we plan
to investigate further in future research. A 2009 survey of Earth scientists by
Peter Doran and Maggie Zimmerman found that as the expertise in climate
research increased, agreement that humans were causing global warming grew
stronger. An interesting research question is how the level of consensus
changes among published research that is more relevant to climate science (as
opposed, for instance, to papers focusing on mitigation technologies).


How broad is the consensus?

The crowd-sourcing nature of The Consensus Project enabled us to perform an
analysis an order of magnitude greater than previous analyses. We identified
10,188 scientists who had authored climate abstracts endorsing human-caused
global warming. These scientists came from at least 74 different countries. We
identified nationality from email addresses and given that emails were not
obtained for all scientists, it is expected that the number of countries is an
underestimate. This indicates the scientific consensus involves a large
community of scientists scattered all over the world.


Philosophical Questions


Why does consensus matter?

When a representative sample of the US public are asked how many climate
scientists agree that humans are causing global warming, the average answer is
around 50%. There is a significant gap between public perception and the
reality of 97% consensus. This “consensus gap” has real-world consequences.
People who think that climate experts disagree about human-caused global
warming are less likely to support policies that address climate change.

The consensus gap has persisted for over two decades due to deliberate efforts
to cast doubt on the consensus. In 1991, Western Fuels Association conducted a
$510 000 campaign whose primary goal was to ‘reposition global warming as
theory (not fact)’. A key strategy involved constructing the impression of
active scientific debate using dissenting scientists as spokesmen. Similarly, a
memo from communications strategist Frank Luntz leaked in 2002 advised
Republicans:

“Should the public come to believe that the scientific issues are settled,
their views about global warming will change accordingly. Therefore, you need
to continue to make the lack of scientific certainty a primary issue in the
debate.”

Closing the consensus gap in the public perception of a scientific consensus is
an important step towards meaningful climate action. For this reason, opponents
to climate action has sought to widen the consensus gap for over two decades.


Isn’t science decided by evidence?

Absolutely! There is a quote by John Reisman that aptly sums up this sentiment:

    “Science isn’t a democracy. It’s a dictatorship. Evidence does the
    dictating.”

That humans are causing global warming has already been established by many
lines of evidence. A number of independent measurements all find a human
fingerprint in climate change. Our study establishes that the scientists agree
that humans are causing global warming and that their agreement is expressed in
the most robust venue for scientific debate – in the peer-reviewed literature.

Consensus doesn’t prove human-caused global warming. Instead, the body of
evidence supporting human-caused global warming has led to a scientific
consensus.


What other indicators of consensus are there?

The seminal study in this area was done by Naomi Oreskes who surveyed 928
papers published between 1993 and 2003 whose abstracts matched the search term
“global climate change”. She found zero papers rejecting the consensus position
that humans are causing global warming. We expanded her search by adding
another decade of papers and including the search term “global warming”, which
swelled the number of papers to over 12,000. Our analysis confirmed Oreskes'
result - among the papers matching her search parameters, zero rejected the
consensus.

There have also been two surveys of climate scientists in recent years. One
study by Peter Doran and Maggie Zimmerman found that the greater the expertise
in climate research, the higher the agreement that humans were causing global
warming. The other study led by William Anderegg surveyed public statements on
climate change by 908 climate scientists. Both of these studies found a 97%
consensus. Our paper mirrors the methodology of Anderegg’s study by examining
published statements of climate scientists. We found that among scientists
publishing climate papers that state a position on human-caused global warming,
over 97% endorse the consensus.

Repeated surveys of scientists found that scientific agreement about AGW
steadily increased from 1996 to 2009. This is reflected in the increasingly
definitive statements issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
on the attribution of recent global warming. Our analysis also finds that the
consensus is strengthening with an accelerating number of scientists endorsing
human-caused global warming in the peer-reviewed literature.

A non-peer-reviewed analysis also examines the level of consensus in the
peer-reviewed literature, examining “global warming” or “global climate change”
papers published from 1991 to 9 November 2012. This analysis was actually the
first stage of The Consensus Project, conducted by Jim Powell in collaboration
with John Cook and Dana Nuccitelli. Powell’s analysis found 24 explicit
rejections of human-caused global warming among 13,950 articles. This is
consistent with the results in our paper, which provides peer-reviewed
confirmation of Powell’s analysis.



━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

5.16.13

PRESS RELEASE

Study shows scientists agree humans cause global-warming

May 16, 2013

About 97 per cent of 4000 international scientific papers analysed in a
University of Queensland-led study were rated as endorsing human-caused global
warming.

UQ Global Change Institute lead author John Cook said the finding proved there
was strong scientific agreement about the cause of climate change, despite
public perceptions to the contrary.

“This is significant because when people understand that scientists agree on
global warming, they’re more likely to support policies that take action on
it,” Mr Cook said.

A 2012 poll from the US Pew Research Centre found less than half of Americans
thought scientists agreed humans were causing global warming.

“There is a gaping chasm between the actual consensus and the public
perception,” Mr Cook said.

“Making the results of our paper more widely-known is an important step towards
closing the consensus gap and increasing public support for meaningful climate
action.”

The study was published today in the journal Environmental Research Letters.

The study involved 24 scientists and science enthusiasts in rating the 4000
abstracts that stated a position on climate change.

The papers were also self-rated by the paper authors for validity.

Both approaches found the same result – that 97 per cent of the 4000 abstracts
endorsed human-caused global warming.

The 24 volunteers were recruited through the myth-busting website
Skepticalscience.com, founded by Mr Cook.

Visitors to the website also raised the funds required to allow the study to be
accessible to the public.

The results of the paper are explained in detail on a new website,
theconsensusproject.com, launched today.

Media Contact: Communications Officer Kate Hannah , 0425752904, or UQ Global
Change Institute Research Fellow John Cook, 0421 276 267 or j.cook3@uq.edu.au.


━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

John Cook
can be contacted at:
the Global Change Institute
University of Queensland
Level 7, Gehrmann Laboratories, Research Rd
St Lucia, Brisbane QLD 4072 Australia

Email: mailto:j.cook3@uq.edu.au

Papers about Consensus

Quantifying the consensus on anthropogenic global warming in the scientific
literature
(Cook et al., 2013)

The scientific consensus on climate change
(Naomi Oreskes, 2004)

The scientific consensus on climate change: how do we know we’re not wrong?
(Naomi Oreskes, 2007)

Examining the scientific consensus on climate change
(Peter Doran & Maggie Zimmerman, 2009)

Expert credibility in climate change
(William Anderegg, James Prall, Jacob Harold & Stephen Schneider, 2010)

Support for climate policy and societal action are linked to perceptions about
scientific agreement
(Ding et al., 2011)

Perceived scientific agreement and support for government action on climate
change in the USA
(McCright et al., 2013)

SHARE

  • [TCP-social-media-image-launch-2]
      □ POST IT
      □ TWEET IT
      □ PIN IT
      □ DOWNLOAD
  • [TCP-social-media-image-97]
      □ POST IT
      □ TWEET IT
      □ PIN IT
      □ DOWNLOAD
  • [TCP-social-media-image-gap-400]
      □ POST IT
      □ TWEET IT
      □ PIN IT
      □ DOWNLOAD
  • [TCP-social-media-image-papers-400]
      □ POST IT
      □ TWEET IT
      □ PIN IT
      □ DOWNLOAD
  • [TCP-social-media-image-Chu-400]
      □ POST IT
      □ TWEET IT
      □ PIN IT
      □ DOWNLOAD

