[usheader_explore_support_btn] 
Welcome! Take our site tour, find out what's new, or subscribe for updates.

Understanding Science 101
A primer on the nature and process of science.

Quick links:
Main page
What is science? | How science works
Why science matters | Science toolkit
For teachers
Our section of teaching resources on the nature and process of science.

Quick links:
Main page
K-2 | 3-5 | 6-8 | 9-12 | 13-16
Resource database | Teaching tools
Resource library
A browsable archive of articles, tutorials, interactive features and more.

Quick links:
Main page
Misconceptions | FAQs | Search
How Science Works flowchart


[cells107]
Cells within cells: An extraordinary claim with extraordinary evidence
Learn how an unlikely idea — that the merging of cells played a prominent role
in evolution — overcame strong initial resistance within the scientific
community and came to be an accepted part of evolutionary theory.
[dna107]
The structure of DNA: Cooperation and competition
Knowing the structure of DNA has helped push biology into new realms. Find out
how the human side of science played out in this remarkable discovery.
How Science Works on iTunesU


Science talk
Carl Sagan
"In the long run, the greatest gift of science may be in teaching us, in ways
no other human endeavor has been able, something about our cosmic context,
about where, when and who we are."
 Astronomer Carl Sagan, in The Demon-haunted World, 1996
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Home | About | Copyright | Credits and Collaborations | Contact | Subscribe |
Translations
UCMP
Understanding Science was developed by the University of California Museum of
Paleontology in collaboration with its Advisory Boards.

National Science Foundation
Funded by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. EAR-0624436. Any
opinions, findings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this
material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of
the National Science Foundation (NSF).

Endorsed by:
American Institute of Biological Sciences
American
Institute of
Biological
Sciences
California Science Teachers Association
California
Science
Teachers
Association
National Association of Biology Teachers
National
Association
of Biology
Teachers

Encyclopedia of Life
Encyclopedia
of
Life
Deep Earth Academy
Deep
Earth
Academy


