Jesus                                     Date Jesus - Jesus seeks loving woman
                                           The Most Hated Blog on the Internet
About Jesus Bathe with  Contact     Date Jesus  Endorsements  Multimedia   Multimedia     Sermons
            Jesus       Jesus
           One must still have chaos in oneself to be able to give birth to a dancing
                                        star. -Nietzsche

  January 22, 2016                                                          ┌───────────────────────────┐
                                                                            │        What's New         │
  Perspectives                                                              │                           │
                                                                            │Aphorisms VI               │
  From a mansion, you never get a good look at other mansions. The space    │A Short Guide to Buying a  │
  deliberately eliminates walking areas and sidewalks, requiring driving,   │Better Home                │
  just like a visit to unzoned Texas stores. No one walks from or to        │Aphorisms V                │
  their mansion, creating security by removing means of idle access.        │Jesus' Book List           │
                                                                            │Aphorisms IV               │
  Mansions are normally placed on spacious land that is well lit at all     │Aphorisms III              │
  hours, offering no approach by surprise. Arriving by car is obvious,      │Interview: exponentiation  │
  and intruding by foot offers no easy escape. You could try a naked        │What a Man Does            │
  approach in the middle of the night, but many wealthy people work until   │A Short Guide to Youth     │
  early morning hours or start their days at 4am, with strange extended     │Living                     │
  hours and differing rooms lit at night, so at best you're guessing        └───────────────────────────┘
  their downtime while certain to meet a security system that quickly
  dispatches local police.                                                  ┌───────────────────────────────┐
                                                                            │       Quote of the Week       │
  This deliberate separation from traffic has the antisocial side-effect    │        ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━        │
  of making it nearly impossible to meet neighbors except by rare           │ I want to be with those who   │
  accidents like retrieving mail at the same time.                          │ know secret things or else    │
                                                                            │ alone.                        │
  Then a snowstorm arrives to shut down everything and the stillness        │ -Rainer Maria Rilke           │
  becomes a perfect environment for walking and looking. Cars are           └───────────────────────────────┘
  temporarily self-banished and the houses you drive past can be viewed
  slowly for full appreciation. Their contours explain themselves, with                   [rss]
  the understated and classic exteriors often seen to be hiding vast
  innards, just as striped shirts make the large boned appear slimmer.                [FaceBook-i]

  Most with mansions own businesses or serve executive functions. Some                  [twitter]
  are free spirits who found another way, announcing themselves with
  unusual displays like black lights in the middle of an open                           [myspace]
  architecture, purplish lights bursting out from a dozen window pairs.
  But typically they are drones with giant screens tranquilizing them                  [INS::INS]
  with nonsense to stare at.

  With the lack of serious activity in society, you might wonder what
  valuable functions they perform to earn this wealth. We don't have the
  great art and philosophy we used to, except by accident and contrary to
  society's direction. So what are these wealthy people doing?

  Like politicians, they work for the masses, i.e. accommodating low
  taste and organizing that effort on a massive scale.

  Millions are made not by quality, but by selling sugar water, bad
  cheeseburgers, and junk products of all kinds. Proles love junk and pay
  lots of money to keep junk businesses profitable. Look at all the awful
  stores around you -- proles can't stop giving them money to keep them
  going.

  Also profitable are fashionable products for image. People like to
  appear important, which can be done by showing off a $5 cup of mediocre
  coffee that costs a few cents to make. You've come a long way, baby.

  The mansion dwellers excel in being the enablers of proles to
  effectively and efficiently arm them with the junk products they want
  to consume. Like a successful football coach, executives are just smart
  enough to do their job well, and not too smart to realize they are
  doing wickedness by participating in a foolish enterprise.

  This is why many wealthy people watch entertainment. They are supreme
  proles at heart, not artists or thinkers. Entertainment keeps their
  prole instincts sharp so they sense how to sell what proles desire.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/zMUGJZrR9Jg&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=no)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  January 21, 2016

  Law of Attraction

  The Mad Dog puts himself down, aware he has gone mad and loyal to the
  need for removal.

  By acting out, he shows himself and others his madness. In madness, any
  target suffices for a demonstration that one has put himself in
  distress.

  He makes crazy, imprudent plans and watches himself cause wreckage
  while understanding his machinations are totally irrational and certain
  to end badly.

  And yet, he is not curious or honest enough to identify a root cause
  and correct, inoculate, or stop himself from certain destruction. Nor
  are his actions an exchange of giving something to get something, but a
  rapid compounding of multiple loses to lock in a grievous error.

  All could see the blunder except the Mad Dog whose energies were spent
  explaining a fantastical upside and denying what he was creating.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  January 19, 2016

  What the Universe Demands

  You always start with a blank canvas. What should go there?

  Something new, a substantial idea conveyed precisely, reached by
  playfulness and humor.

  The artist is an editor. Expression arrives as a totality that
  summarizes while conveying essential detail after having considered a
  vast expanse.

  You are in open space all alone, thankfully far from the safety of
  custom.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/lj3iNxZ8Dww&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=no)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  January 18, 2016

  Compendium of Error

  Dangerous books occasionally get printed. At first their appearance
  suggests oppressive authorities must have been asleep at the wheel to
  let this highly subversive information into the wild. Now they will
  have to hunt down each copy, burn them, assassinate the author,
  "debunk" and "educate" prospective readers, and send a firm message so
  no one else tries to discuss the topic.

  But none of that happens for a book that upends everything. It isn't
  noticed and the topic isn't considered the slightest bit interesting.
  People go on following the errors and misconceptions the book urges
  them to realize and discard.

  Upon deeper reading it becomes clear the author doesn't understand the
  full magnitude of what he has uncovered. Because of his fixation on
  leftist social justice, the book distracts itself from a larger point.
  Nevertheless, the concluding implications should be considered.

  Unfair by Adam Benforado reveals the legal system is founded on error,
  just like the rest of society Adam Benforado's Unfair examines the
  foundational flaws in the U.S. legal system. Eye witness testimony
  continues to be weighed heavily, despite being known to be the least
  reliable. Prosecutors use clever strategies in an attempt to win rather
  than pursue justice. Juries are gathered under the archaic premise that
  they can detect lies and ascertain truth, like sniffing out witches,
  but studies find no such ability to find truth or lies exists.

  Good looking people receive lesser penalties, presumably from the
  instinct to judge well-constituted people less harshly than the poorly
  constituted. Judges give different penalties for the same crime
  depending on the time of day, suggesting they are in a hurry for lunch
  or too tired to assess rationally. Lie detectors only prove nervousness
  at the situation.

  In any case, justice is unequal, as perhaps it should be, remembering
  that "one law for the lion and ox is oppression."

  We see justice is based on superstitious thinking, capricious, and
  open-minded about accepting sworn testimony about things they imagine
  they saw, heard, felt, and maybe remembered in a particular way exactly
  as they happened many years ago when the event in question occurred.

  This is where the author thought he was done, unaware of what he had
  opened. Not only is justice this collection of superstitious fantasies
  and illusions cast into custom, but every facet of civilization is
  built from a similar mix of reason, fantasy, mistake, happenstance, and
  fiction unified into a whole that stands with self-assurance of its
  durable applicability.

  It neither doubts itself nor feels a need to check. Contrary
  information is tacitly ignored, prompting no structural correction or
  rebalancing. It keeps on as before, certain it is sensible,
  functionally sound, and ideally formed, despite awareness it is
  irrational, structurally flawed, and founded on primitive notions long
  ago recognized as wrong.

  The wheel was used into the 19th century Foucault tried to clarify
  human folly by giving a history of punishment, showing that in all ages
  it remains the same presumptuous act, performed violently with good
  intentions to help teach the person it is done to, yet other than
  harming someone, it changes nothing.

  As neither the moneyed interests nor clever lawyers care to assess the
  rules of the legal game and better tune them to reality, we should not
  expect any reevaluations in other areas of civilization founded on
  grossly erroneous principles.

  Instead, expect failing systems to release pressure by becoming
  increasingly permissive while calling this need progress, which implies
  infinite permissiveness without scrutiny and historical comparison
  would be the best of all.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/6kqTcLwUYj8&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=no)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  January 17, 2016

  Repetition Despite Situation

  We can't solve traffic, yet report it and send money to fix it,
  achieving nothing with this flaccid activity Public radio turtles up
  for its beating, as if passively waiting for an impartial referee to
  end the contest for lack of intelligent defense.

  Every major city is overwhelmed by traffic, forcing moderns to either
  bypass traffic spiritually through transcendent detachment from
  society, physically by avoiding a common schedule or need to commute,
  or use of real-time data to find the least overrun side streets. In all
  cases, we've given up on government's ability to fix the problem, yet
  keep giving them money out of custom.

  It is curious to be in a society in observations of its egregious
  errors and lack of focus. You can't really communicate with examples of
  its minds, but want a glimpse of the type of thinking behind this
  pattern of failure to take sensible decisions.

  Waze offers some insight. Intended as an aggregate monitor to avoid
  traffic, it also alerts motorists about hidden speed traps. This is
  largely defeated by users displaying compliant autism by marking school
  traffic guards and visible police already engaged with roadside
  motorists so that the "police reported ahead" alert is transformed from
  information to noise. Other users pile on by reporting harmless
  disabled or parked cars on the shoulders so frequent "vehicle on
  shoulder ahead" announcements follow. This is only helpful if you don't
  have a fancy car with luxury features like a transparent windshield.

  Who is your fellow citizen? He is literal and sees nothing wrong with
  making factual matches that destroy systems because he does not have
  awareness of what his actions accomplish. He has no consideration for
  the purpose or consequences of following instructions, nor ability to
  work through what those instructions will accomplish.

  Meanwhile, public radio keeps giving out traffic information, which
  like weather is basically the same as yesterday, and in any case you'll
  deal with whatever it is. Insignificant and customary traffic will be
  reported anyway, and anything else is way behind traffic trends tracked
  by apps.

  These attempts at communication are what you'd expect from robots or
  former professional boxers after a long career. While technically
  correct, they are wildly irrelevant and will require great effort to
  get them to stop doing things that add noise and don't make sense.

  The tools are great, but the users who corrupt them are atrocious.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  January 16, 2016

  Cold Blood

  It is called cold blooded because that is the opposite of what it is,
  which is how they name things when emotions run high.

  Specific traits were recognized by those envious of them, i.e. those
  who did not possess them yet admired and desired what nature freely
  gave others, so for revenge they describe them with slander.

  Who considers, measures, scrutinizes, organizes, and by instinct uses
  chains of reason to assess short and long term outcomes? Those for whom
  consequences are most severe because they had formative evolution in
  harsh, long winters that require planning under penalty of death.

  Those who survived this for many generations do it effortlessly today
  because it is part of their nature. Others seek to possess reason by
  taking classes, studying its use, and trying to apply rules that feel
  foreign and strange.

  Those from the cold have warm blood, not cold reptile blood that
  requires the sun for energy and movement.

  When you see slander, it is first detected as a lie, and then you see
  the envy and desire for harming another for revenge.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  December 25, 2015

  Confessions of Saul, the Pragmatist

  The desert mystic was a polarizing figure. He was deemed a rabble
  rouser and was occasionally persecuted for disruptive teachings
  contrary to the efforts of the administrative authorities.

  His followers were devoted because his ideas helped calm their inner
  insanity. His pot luck hippie gatherings in the desert were fun,
  whether driven by hallucinogenic mushrooms or the burning bush's DMT.

  His hygiene guidelines were of great personal benefit to those
  unfamiliar with washing.

                              [desert_mystic]

  His suggestions to not violently act out were stabilizing to crazy
  Middle Eastern tribes who needed commandments telling them not to
  murder, steal, and perform other acts because of defective instincts.
  To be made closer to normal people, their inherent features had to be
  excised in every new generation; circumcision being only a symbol of
  their need to be made partial.

  After multiple skirmishes the day finally came when authorities had to
  arrest and execute the rebel. His small cult would now drift to the
  next hippie, unless the cult could be commemorated. And if it could be
  commemorated, it could be codified, expanded, and made into a movement
  with proper marketing. Saul was not one to let a profitable opportunity
  slip away.

      From this personal loss of a friend, who is in any case gone
      forever and could not care what is said of him, a new product could
      be offered. I can use my previous access to promote it and give
      testimony to lure others to its message.

  Saul became Paul, and fancied himself a promoter. Germans later
  reinterpreted Judeo-Christianity, standardizing, spreading and
  enforcing it for gain. After the Crusades darkened Europe, the original
  impact continued to pulse. The next big demonstration appeared in the
  French Revolution with the liquidation of the intellectual class for
  the purpose of achieving equality, and France never recovered. Any act
  can be justified.

  When victory matters more than truth, monsters like Bernays appear,
  which begat Madison Ave and its message of needing products to fill a
  void, which begat efforts to hollow out the whole so people could be
  convinced cheap huckstered products were what they were lacking.

  As the world spun, Hollywood stories developed from semi-innocuous
  distractions to ideological propaganda showing secular faith in its
  fictional form, which from the illustration became a reference point
  and served as proof of this new belief, the movie world and real world
  being confused as the same to most observers.

  Enemies, especially nature, could be demonized, the good could be shown
  as wicked, insane ideas could be portrayed as genius, and the neurosis
  of the crazy could be spread widely to equally debilitate many. Every
  poison could be broadcast and praised, and basic principles of
  civilization turned upside down, yet the movie world showing images of
  this working better than ever.

  Best of all, audiences would pay for the privilege of being debased and
  lied to in visual form.

  Without the French revolution, there is no Karl Marx to bequeath
  communism as the ideal in civil rights. Under communism, all are equal,
  except the privileged ruling class, as the professional, educated, and
  conservatives are liquidated as a warning to the remaining lower
  classes who are additionally squeezed into obedience and silence by the
  state through frequent demonstrations of hunger and poverty as gentle
  alternatives to murder.

  What is communism except a series of definitions, none which correspond
  closely to reality? And if one points this out in public, they are an
  enemy of the state and will soon be reeducated, imprisoned, or
  liquidated for the crime of honesty.

  Communism used the same methods and failed everywhere it was attempted,
  yet succeeded in thoroughly embedding itself in the west with its
  activists overtaking university professorships and politics, replacing
  traditionalists.

  Communists fought relentlessly and were able to overturn almost all
  values that had stood for thousands of years, replacing them with more
  appealing doctrines and beliefs buttressed by media promotion that
  proved the superiority of their faith. Their domination of schools
  ensured an eventual victory by teaching children to approve of people
  who repeated those ideas and oppose the enemies of communism who
  thought differently and dared to say so in public.

  The free speech movement in the 60s claimed to desire permissiveness
  for all ideas, but as soon as they gained power, they promptly began
  attacking and censoring ideas contrary to their own. They were only
  interested in winning by any means necessary.

  Even the pope is complicit in the fakery of miracles, as he certifies
  them for the purpose of creating saints, which he justifies as
  inspiring to the followers of his religion. He concludes it is helpful
  for people to think the laws of the universe can be violated by magical
  people who deviate from the natural world and thus are cast into
  sainthood after their deaths.

  Paul/Saul did the same by creating an image and marketing it for gain.

  When someone uses a historical person for their platform, consider what
  they are trying to prove and whether this is vacuous propaganda, a
  fraudulent miracle, or twisted tall tales repeated until they are
  tolerated as truth.

  Beware every legacy of lies.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/m-ccAFrK3Hs&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=no)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  October 31, 2015

  Zombies and Ghouls

  Zombies gather in force to feed off you and take you down by making you
  just like them. They argue it is inevitable, and unless you resist and
  triumph, you will end up like them - zombified They are undead and
  swarm in lumbering packs to feast on blood, flesh, and fast food. They
  are immune to reason and unconcerned with what will come in the future.
  Even the present barely penetrates consciousness.

  They don't know truth or concern themselves with it, liberating them to
  become fully actualized zombies unified in form and function.

  They slowly and methodically surround you to afford little escape. From
  a distance it is difficult to detect the newly infected whose innards
  gurgle with brewing disease and will soon be staring at screens and
  hungrily consuming trivialities.

  The bite of a zombie is frightful. Your one and only appearance as a
  conscious and self-organizing entity comes to an end. For evermore, you
  will plod and meander for mere sustenance using barbaric
  utilitarianism.

  Oversocialization leads to simpletonism in subservience to a
  consciousness unable to escape the gravitational pull of entertainment
  reality in its circular orbit.

  Zombie armies insist they are trapped, and then make it so, pursuing
  peasant hedonism and spreading pestilence far and wide.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/Fat2rswNJ1k&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=20&hl=be)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  October 30, 2015

  Political Fiction

  In democracy, ruled subjects are given little insight into the
  reasoning or expected results of laws and policies created by the
  ruling class. It's difficult to determine what leaders are trying to
  accomplish and what theories they are using. All we see is that their
  approaches are calculated to fool dummies and saddle them with
  long-term loss.

  Strange initiatives keep the public off balance so they have to guess
  about the motives of the leaders, especially as most political actions
  cause increasingly bad results.

  Like political science (poli-sci) and science fiction (sci-fi), we make
  use of political fiction (poli-fi) to explore possibilities.

  As there is little substantial proof that our rules are a wicked alien
  shape-shifting lizard race intent of destroying humanity, we look at
  alternative explanations for their harmful policies.

  We only have history and observed results, so must use those to
  understand similar current actions.

    • Politicians often use public money to win votes for themselves or
      the party, funding schemes that help their demographic and cost
      their opponent's demographic, ideally for generations.
    • Politicians benefit by creating disorder because it necessitates
      increased political and personal power to fix the problem they
      created. The bigger the problem created, the more need for
      government power.
    • Politicians change demographics to create a favorable voting block
      and more easily manipulated populations.
    • Preventing unity is beneficial because it gives politicians more
      power in the absence of a culture that has been euthanized. Without
      a culture, values, or standards, laws and lawmakers run the show,
      not citizens.
    • Politicians are experts at symbolic actions and rarely take
      effective actions, taking credit for coincidental events and
      shirking responsibility for their misdeeds and blunders. They do
      not have a history of solving actual problems.
    • They are not deep thinkers. Most are a combination of sociopaths
      and parasites who primarily repeat doctrine popular with crowds.
      They find a way to appeal to groups who want to hear their beliefs
      of how the world works repeated back at them. These groups are
      failures and know little, and politicians happily tell them the
      lies they crave.

  In the absence of disclosed reason for the policies they force on the
  public, we use reason and study previous efforts to determine likely
  outcomes, though we still have imperfect access to the motivating force
  of their wickedness.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/64U2-pJgYYw&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=be)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  October 25, 2015

  The Governing Challenge

  The greatest challenge to Western governments in the next decades will
  be trying to maintain the appearance of remaining functional.

  They are flanked on one side by tolerance of bad outcomes, which they
  attempt to defend with phony explanations for their causes. These
  arguments will gradually wilt from scrutiny. New bogus reasons will be
  proposed, and these too will collapse under examination until all
  shields are torn away, leaving the truth bare before all.

    Low IQ prevails and must be spread everywhere because it's progress

  The system buys time with fake measurements that supposedly prove high
  standards, no different from faking tests for clean diesel emissions.
  In a bind, all you can do is fake it and hope to get through another
  day until you're eventually caught. With governments regularly
  committing fraud and forcing malignant changes to society, degrading
  the whole for their selfish advantage, why can't corporations do the
  same?

  On the other side they are flanked by vibrant diversity which has
  curtailed civic engagement from distrust and lack of common interests,
  with contrary goals and values openly clashing. Voting is ludicrous
  given recognition that it's not your society anymore. After
  dispossession, no one is interested in helping fix obvious problems
  that were once addressed by the community that has been destroyed.

  All that's left is to build your small parcel, defend as best possible
  against encroachment, and tune out the nonsense and decay.

  Now flanked, and having sustained decades of progressive attrition, an
  assault of third-worlders comes to lock in permanent disunity and
  largely replace the people who developed civilization. This ensures a
  safe return to the third world standards these people autonomously
  created in their own lands.

                            World IQ over time

  Governments will be forced to treat low ability as normal, because
  statistically it will be common. Having crafted that population, the
  government will adapt to that level of results. Clearly it opted for a
  third-world direction for a good reason, otherwise it would not have
  changed an advanced society to create a less able result without a
  purpose in mind.

  The final fail-safe will be the individual, which will largely fall
  into camps of those who understand plainly why failure is happening and
  those who are a mix of delusional and dishonest. These constituencies
  are too diverse to share consensus about what sort of behavior is
  desirable or expected, so increased tolerance for bad results will be
  requested while those with money will separate from undesirable
  populations to minimize exposure to destruction.

  Businesses have a higher need to run a tight ship than governments
  because they must fund themselves from profits instead of being
  privileged to regularly take taxes from citizens. Like governments,
  businesses will adopt a new orientation towards the public that assumes
  error, ignorance, and undirectedness as the new standard. Anything a
  member of the public says is probably wrong or dishonest, possibly a
  scam or statement originating from mental illness, so every interaction
  will anticipate mistakes in judgment and action to minimize their
  damage.

  This means treating everyone as a destructive moron liar. With the
  smart people bred out, society will baseline to third-world standards,
  and when morphine explanations eventually fail, new norms will
  gradually be accepted as better approximations of the situation.

  You can always buy a little time with facades and lies, which is just
  like borrowing from a loan shark.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/H5pD7RwZDbU&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=be)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  October 23, 2015

  It Was Better Before Freedom

  Consider the value of people prior to the 1960s. They ate normal food
  and had normal physical proportions. Most were naturally attractive.
  Trauma and broken families were rare; consequently blue hair,
  piercings, and tattoos did not appear.

    It is not important to make history. You should focus on achieving
                             basic competence.

  Women were pleasant and respectful, not loud, rude, or obnoxious. They
  knew how to cook and clean, which meant they could run a home and help
  sustain a family.

  A man meeting such a woman could see the possibilities and worked to
  win her hand so they could raise a family with his income and her home
  skills covering both fronts.

  Today many singles are unattractive and unskilled, as if to argue
  against the possibility of a family. If they have a family, often it is
  by accident that will bring lasting struggle from failing to possess
  the basic skills needed to raise children.

  Being loud by repeating opinions learned from the media isn't helpful,
  especially when those are dishonestly crafted to appeal to crowds.

  A home's cleaning has to be outsourced to maids for a few hours of
  work, debunking the notion that housework is laborious. It shows only
  that someone has no skin in the game and cannot provide value to the
  family, though time is made to watch shows and keep up with texts and
  Facebook.

  Similarly, cooking is outsourced to take-out restaurants. There is no
  knowledge of nutrition or preparation of basic meals. This would be a
  disaster, except collectively lower standards means incompetence is
  okay when most others have agreed to know nothing.

  As a result, society has fewer families and marriages because essential
  skills are now lacking and many have nothing to offer a prospective
  household. Those that form are mostly dysfunctional from lacking the
  abilities expected of their parents and grandparents.

  It was better when developing value was favored over dramatic
  individualism.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/b8zlGkRED6M&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=be)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  October 22, 2015

  Kindness

  In a relationship, kindness and its related gifts are usually wasted,
  taken for granted at the moment and valued only afterwards when it is
  far too late.

  Nor can you show anyone anything they will appreciate at the time, as
  they will only get it later, and sense a little of what could have been
  if they were more aware before pushing possibility away.

  None of this is an argument against kindness or exploration, only
  against the expectation of being appreciated or understood.

  Those come after sunset, when the day's labor has been spent. Its value
  was assumed to be nothing because it came freely and was common. Only
  when gone is its rarity realized.

  To some we will give despite pessimistic expectations because we sense
  what they might be. Our disposition is timeless and separate from
  circumstances. We remain as we are and always shall.

  We are able to give because we are abundant and replenishing.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/O2J_Qkt5aho&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=11&hl=be)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  October 12, 2015

  Texts

  You can try to seduce by text, i.e. words and sentences, but it's not
  very important, dwarfed by the subtext, molded by context, the
  structured form on which all hangs, with truth openly hiding between
  the lines.

  You can delay with a pretext, a flimsy scaffolding that won't support
  much and soon needs replacement substance, which is chemistry, which is
  magic.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/JwP5dkfGmlI&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=de)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  October 11, 2015

  Tolerate Failure

     Failure to comprehend as basis for mental problems spilling into
                           politics and ideology

  There are many minds that cannot evaluate the merit of ideas, instead
  truly believing all factual relations are arbitrary statements or
  trivial opinions. This belief that all words and their correspondence
  are baseless allows him freedom to participate in that practice.

  Accordingly, he thinks assertion makes a fact, so vociferously and
  aggressively asserts many positions that lack reason, even taking
  self-contradictory stances, such as vandalizing walls with nonsense
  while claiming that ugly vandalism isn't vandalism. Perhaps he imagines
  this is genius art or enlightened philosophy that brings insightful joy
  to those who have to look at it every day, especially to the family
  that has stupidities sprayed onto the walls of their house.

  The methods and ideas of activists are the best indicator of the
  group's beliefs. The sensible person looks at graffiti and wonders "who
  is in favor of this?" and yet structures worldwide are defaced with
  spraypaint and insane political slogans that if widely tolerated would
  quickly end civilization in a pathetic suicide.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  October 10, 2015

  Abolishing Graffiti

    They claim to be artists, but create art no one wants to see -- and
  then claim they are not vandals, though they have vandalized a building
                    to make it ugly with idiotic text.

  Graffiti uglifies. Its messages convey trivial thoughts, stupidities,
  and dishonest ideology in place of normal civilization. Michelangelo
  with a spraycan could not do more with graffiti than create another
  public eyesore.

  Urban farming is better than anarchic planting of ditch weed, though
  both suffer from utilitarian thinking.

  Better still is activist landscaping to thoughtfully cultivate a
  beautiful, vivid environment that makes your community feel wonderful.

  Politicians have to take some risk when enacting policies that destroy
  healthy communities, for example designating them as "sanctuary cities"
  for third-world standardization. The primary advantage gained by adding
  a mess of illiterate, unskilled third world people is to create power
  for government by crafting situations that require help from government
  to manage new problems created by the addition of an incompatible
  population.

  By preventing problems rather than constructing new ones, we reclaim
  our public spaces from nuisances and make our communities into places
  in which we enjoy living.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/IQ3q79rD_9U&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=43&hl=no)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  October 9, 2015

  Faustian Souls

  The Faustian soul is transfixed on reaching beyond, stretching itself
  into infinitude during its personally short duration, with each member
  attempting its potential, each star shining for an instant as it exerts
  itself to go farther Summoned into being from an infinitude of
  nothingness, we breathe for a moment.

  We know almost nothing, and are born into our dispositions and
  worldview.

  We are traditionally Faustian, conceptually and physically spanning
  time and place, as if prepared long ago to explore the cosmos and enjoy
  the wealth of having many homes, thankfully gifted with ability to tend
  each of them.

  We civilize and make functional the most barbaric, hostile, or ruined
  land, but more importantly our spirit thirsts for perpetual expanse.
  This is our gift and curse, for it propels us beyond all limits and
  sensibility and affixes our focus on targets others dismiss as
  unattainable or never stir within enough to ponder, happily dull and
  incurious. This feeling for reaching beyond the present births our
  technology, art, exploration, and is the ever replenishing pool of our
  aspirations.

  Our hopes, beliefs, and worldview inextricably grow from the Faustian
  instinct. Those who lack this feeling can imitate our creations, but
  their results will always remain foreign and artificial, for they lack
  its love and the need to burst forth in all directions beyond limit.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/cndZYrNaaE4&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=no)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  September 25, 2015

  Identifying with Cheap Clean Diesel

  It's your world and you can get good mileage by burning whatever you
  want to make fumes that feel clean to you A modern product must be
  democratically cheap so everyone can use it. It must be clean, and have
  other incompatible traits that urge on disaster by stipulating
  committee definitions and mandatory compliance.

      Diesel engine fumes can cause lung cancer and belong in the same
      potentially deadly category as asbestos, arsenic and mustard gas,
      World Health Organisation (WHO) experts said on Tuesday.
      [Reuters]

  Companies promoted clean diesel so consumers could feel good that their
  higher gas mileage wasn't harmful to the world they drive through, but
  this was just marketing. Nitrogen oxide levels produced by burning
  diesel fuel hadn't changed. Most diesel vehicles continue spew fumes
  like a traditional gas van used to purge dissidents and enemies of the
  state.

      While exhaust catalysts have decreased total nitrogen oxides from
      petrol cars by around 96%, real-world tests show that pollution
      controls on diesel cars are not as effective. New diesels produce
      similar nitrogen oxides to those bought 15 years ago.
      [Guardian]

  Cheap diesel shows that requirements to produce the impossible are sure
  to fail. Companies can't admit failure to meet unattainable standards
  or price themselves out of the market with expensive technology, so
  faking seems initially better than admitting technical failure. They
  know they will eventually be caught, and consider that a better option.

  It also reminds us that in modernity much is faked for appearance. When
  you can be anyone you want to be, and can shamelessly claim to have
  traits you don't possess, why not also produce any kind of test results
  you desire, even those which do not correspond to the matter being
  tested?

  Clean diesel identifies as having low pollution levels and it is
  hateful, close-minded, and bigoted to deny its inner feelings.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  August 26, 2015

  Crafty Ain't Best

  Crafty is third best.

  Best is to dissuade by appearance and plainly conveyed substance.

  Second best is to use physical force to incapacitate encroachers.

  One relies on crafty when lacking better approaches, usually lying to
  themselves about how far their craftiness is likely to take them
  against a determined opponent.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  August 25, 2015

  Leaf Blowers

  Blowing dust into the air is not helpful He stands with a gas powered
  weapon in hand, staid and purposeful with his steely gaze hidden behind
  dark sunglasses.

  He strides forward, pointing his blower alternatively left and right to
  clear away everything before him, discharging it into a swarming
  suspended dust cloud to choke privileged first-world citizens who were
  taught by bigots that their heritage and culture entitles them to clean
  air, and probably clean water too.

  The enforcer neutralizes inequality by vibrantly stirring tired dust
  and debris previously assumed to be settled. By putting particulate
  matter back in play, new vital potency is interjected as this
  tremendous labor arouses the economy with its innovation.

  Who will man the leaf blowers if these people are sent back to their
  native lands as the law requires? Which is not to denigrate the urgent
  need to also import unskilled illiterate women who are just as crucial
  to the future of advanced societies whose success is dependent on
  highly educated and intelligent populations, especially as robotics
  replaces trivial labor.

  They are technological to the extent of using technology other people
  created, and too lazy to use the rakes and brooms that are appropriate
  for their task.

  It's hard to think who would hold the blowers and produce this noise
  and fumes if not these brave people, or to remember how things were
  before blower warriors became a fixture.

                            Immigration Sources

  Those trying to force demographic change would prefer we don't think
  about the consequences of this approach or remember the type of society
  before they turned it into this. But the unruly were too loud, and now
  will be replaced by a group that votes loyally for empty promises and
  patiently waits for a growing government to inefficiently distribute
  the wealth earned by other people.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/pgiRX04ohxI&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=es)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  August 22, 2015

  Illogical Methods are Needed to Implement Bad Design

  Revelatory stop sign in Üsküdar We will soon forget why we have stop
  signs, yet will continue to habitually role-play their mandated
  behavior.

  Stop signs are justified as necessary for safety, yet are more like
  senseless archaic rituals in situations where drivers can plainly
  survey the area to see there is no one around and should instead
  continue onward without breaking momentum. Stopping for no purpose to
  comply with a law defies reason for the sake of fulfilling an illogical
  legal requirement lacking provisional relevance. Some people find the
  illogical behavior deplorable and refuse to participate, so cops hide
  in wait to make citizens pay them extra money for non-compliance.

  Extrapolating rote enforcement against reason to achieve the opposite
  of a sensible result pushes society still farther from reality. Our
  governments take money from us to employ people to force us to behave
  in ways that don't make sense using absurd methods to achieve goals we
  don't want. When we seek relief, we often strive only to paralyze the
  enemy that we have created and fund, not to correct the misdirection of
  functions working against our interest in having a healthy
  civilization. We have done this to ourselves and are the only ones who
  can stop us from continuing to do it.

  Sensibility is often rare and glacial in its periodic expansion and
  recession. Our laws are mostly sacrosanct, needing massive attention to
  be changed, and can be established or repealed by a proclamation of
  feelings much easier than any sound reason, theory, or evidence.

  It would be better if establishing a law required a thesis and
  expiration date so repeals could be facilitated when their foundational
  theory was found to be false. This would allow laws to be periodically
  reviewed for soundness, and all new laws would have to be argued for
  like a doctoral defense rather than trivially created by demagoguery.

  The automated car looms close and threatens to largely upend some of
  this madness by disrupting its revenue stream. Like a zombie that can
  be killed by a headshot, or vampire by a silver stake through its
  heart, terrible laws will die when starved of money.

  With cars driving themselves, traffic enforcement money will dry up,
  requiring liquidation of police who perform tax collection, and
  standard taxes will increase again to offset the income those uniformed
  collectors used to take from motorists.

  Automated cars will also be able to relax many barriers to driving,
  such as allowing left hand turns that were previously legal but have
  been increasing taken away by newly installed lights requiring a
  designated green arrow. They will also likely be able to bypass full
  stops at stop signs, drive at higher speeds, and in other ways operate
  more efficiently, returning driving to a more sensible and free state
  that it enjoyed in previous decades.

  Police might not adjust well to these changes and seek other ways to
  extract revenue from the public that employs them and expects useful
  behavior. They might work with legislatures to increase civil
  forfeitures and significantly increase fines on marginal offenses,
  though this will be scrutinized as nuisance behavior and organize the
  public to further force police to perform useful functions desired by
  the community that pays them.

  The future model of personal transportation suggests a combination of
  utopian and dystopian advances. Traffic will become an abstraction
  reducing travel to time consumed while removing effort and attention.
  You'll have a comfortable vehicle with a refrigerator, espresso maker,
  and full communications system, and can sleep through any commute,
  which will allow governments to argue against a pressing need to
  provide adequate roads or policies to reduce traffic. Always remember
  that to large institutions your time is of no value, yet to you it is
  the most valuable thing you possess.

  Automated cars are coming whether you like it or not, clearing away
  some bad ideas that have become entrenched, though some will try to
  work into the transition by injecting themselves where they are neither
  needed nor helpful, and we must wash them away with simplicity.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/LZMgmuSZVGE&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=76&hl=fr)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  August 21, 2015

  Defeating the Smartphone

  The smartphone argues that love should be impossible and the threat of
  its viable existence must be destroyed by pointless interruptions and
  updates.

      "When entering a marriage, one should ask the question: do you
      think you will be able to have good conversations with this woman
      right into old age? Everything else in marriage is transitory, but
      most of the time in interaction is spent in conversation."
      -FWN

  The smartphone wages war against ideas, intimacy, relevance, and
  purposeful behavior Hot romance can easily recede into passionless
  tolerance or stifled resentment, and then you return to interests that
  were blocked by relationship impositions, or seek a more suitable
  partner. But pursuing a modern girl isn't just a competition against
  other suitors, some of whom are able to juggle several girls at a time.
  To get the girl, you must be more interesting than her smartphone.

  The requirement to outcompete her phone sounds daunting, but just as
  chess masters were wary of the first challenges against supercomputers,
  the automated opponent considering millions of moves at each step
  remains vulnerable and can be defeated by cunning that both evades the
  strategy of bulk considerations and probabilities while using the
  device's communication channel against it.

  The smartphone is a prolific babbler, conveying little of substance.
  Its biggest hook is relaying Facebook praise, giving its subject the
  illusion that they are interesting, attractive, and clever, despite
  contrary indications from the real world. The phone is also a gateway
  for incoming texts, but these are either banal information ("I am at
  the bar") or fragmented drama ("You won't believe what Jenny just
  did"). The phone offers a connection to email, but it is almost never
  written well and no one modern really wants to read more than 140
  characters anyway.

  To beat the phone, you need conversationalism that transmits compelling
  essence, which is roughly a combination of personal stories that unfold
  themes with humor, adventure, and an invested perspective.

  Your major advantage is that all magic happens in person, while the
  smartphone is more of a proxy that hints at things that could happen in
  person but can never deliver. Once you've shown magic and are a proven
  entity, you can at least neutralize the thoughtless smartphone by
  having it work on your behalf to promote your demonstrably qualities.

  By adopting your opponent to become part of your platform, high quality
  messages will stand out from the constant stream of updates about
  things that don't matter. Once contrasted with the communication of an
  interesting person, the phone is exposed as a transmitter of very
  boring, low quality, and off-topic messages.

  As you have a goal and ability to communicate intelligently, your stark
  contrast can defeat the automatic delivery agent, assuming the girl is
  able to distinguish between nonsense and something interesting.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/EheLN-MDzrA&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=fr)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  August 11, 2015

  Death to Ideology

  No neo reenactments! No doctrinal demonstrations of passive allegiance!
  There is only what one lives, not the theories they allege to believe.

  Your actions align with the original timeless form, its wisdom also
  offering advantage. Were you to discover them for the first time 1000
  years from now without any context, you would choose identically,
  needing no outside validation.

  These ancient ideas are still known to some, and crisper translations
  continue to appear for those who are of the same spirit that deserves
  to know.

  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  August 5, 2015

  Obliterated and Disorganized by Progress

  They will try to utterly destroy and dissemble you to fit their system.
  The system is not malicious, just a robotic zombie. It's not that they
  don't care about consequences -- they are unaware of them.

  Because it is a process, there's no entity to blame. Nor can the
  process itself be assailed, as by self-definition it is considered
  enlightened and thus inviolable, which also means unconcerned with the
  destructive aspects of its operation, and changing these would require
  dismantling the process and negating its faulty premises.

      As the ancients saw, evil is just ignorance unrestrained into
      action.

  You will be hybridized, i.e. mixed between dissimilar cultures and
  heritage, losing all refined and cultivated aspects carefully gathered
  over many generations, replacing these valuable traits with generic
  lowest common denominator fillers.

  Immoralists consider the function of this system, not its proud
  chest-puffed claims of enlightenment.

  Your life is short. The system gambles on retaining its position by
  bluff more than force, playing a waiting game where it expects all will
  eventually comply or are leveled.

  If you insist on retaining your values, culture, language, and ideas,
  you will need to find someone who also shares these and thus can pass
  them on to your children. They in turn will be assaulted anew by the
  system that seeks to genericize them, disrupt their inheritance, and
  leave them purposeless and lost so they are ripe for propaganda and
  need to be given direction, for it has been taken from them.

  Even if the individual is only partly genericized, that is an
  intermediate victory of having less than their parents and not knowing
  how to pass it on, ensuring it becomes lost. From there, it is only a
  matter of time until future generations are crushed and their refined
  traits made wholly generic.

  There are of course many alternatives. Pockets of civilization
  realizing the poverty of consumerized herds could resist and form
  independent communities. Civilization quickly turns to barbarism given
  sufficient generic people, and its looming consequences will sway many
  into resistance against the system.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  August 4, 2015

  Feminism Inhibits, Hinders, and Murders the Soul

  Many rape survivors, which makes sense because rape rarely kills. When
  I was growing up, feminism was not yet an absolutist doctrine with
  government support, nor taught in schools and enforced by a nanny state
  taking taxpayer money to fund its premises. It was then just a pesky
  and persistent ideology that nagged the good natured into complying
  with coercive pandering demands for preferential treatment as a class
  of victims.

  At the time, feminists were only one more special interest group whose
  adherents claimed unique demographic rights, arguing they needed
  protection because they were weak, suffering, unstable, and incapable
  of securing their needs and competing on equal ground.

  Polite people considered the possibility that this group was as
  impaired as they claimed, and with pity often took effort to treat them
  gently. Like acknowledging Kwanzaa without snickering, and trying to
  look away from consequences of imposed diversity no one wants, why not
  treat yet another special group as they profess to be?

  Feminism teaches men to treat women as nuns, sterile scientists, or
  homeless degenerates incapable of earning a living -- and to avoid
  having fun with them, engaging them or enjoying them, and especially to
  never act upon attraction and become partners rather than enemies.

  Yet these rules are inevitably broken by an excess of aroused passion,
  the very passion they strive to kill by rules of distance and
  complication, with playful joy erupting despite explicit banishment.
  Once tasted and proven right, you learn to trust your instincts fully
  as they always do everything they should, in direct contravention of
  feminism's rules against men and women sharing delight in one another.

  Trying to make sense of its anger, you catch feminism in the act of
  turning beautiful and spirited women into vengeful bitter witches
  aggrieved by repeated stories of secret oppression and conspiracies
  against them. Though each desired the other in all times previous,
  feminism turns men and women against one another so it can isolate and
  harvest the woman for use as a foot soldier for its ideology. The
  family had to be overthrown, then love, reproduction, sexuality, and
  even nature for the crime of being too hierarchical. Children had to be
  politicized, propagandized, and enlisted for the cause, consequences
  bedamned.

  Just as innocents were indoctrinated into this strange cult, its
  followers don't strongly believe its fantastic worldview and can be
  easily swayed from it by exposure to reality.

  We show women a way back to the delights of concord and affection -
  against the wishes of their leaders and a depressing belief system that
  tries to starve them of kindness and appreciation.

  Instinct sets all things in motion so they can unfold. Judgment acts as
  an amiable dance partner following the lead of instinct, trying to
  understand why things move as they do. Reason only later gains insight
  into the natural, and only when not swayed by ego or ideology.

      Your joke is too bawdy. You are too forward in conversation. You
      make intimate contact too quickly. You fail to pay lip service to
      popular lies and pretenses.

  These offenses and many others are against the rules, but honesty,
  nature, and desire will earn you the sweetest fruits of a woman's
  affection. This teaches preference for being an outlaw to get what you
  want instead of waiting for handouts in the barren, dusty dungeon of
  the dominant paradigm.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  August 1, 2015

  Difference in Disposition

  You retain your disposition despite circumstances. And how could you be
  other than you are?

  You notice a dissimilar essence upon encountering educational systems,
  workplaces, media news stories, and social propaganda -- and measure
  this difference by comparing their ideas against the reality you've
  encountered that has confirmed your world view.

  If your nature is good, you will esteem what is productive, ennobling,
  and of higher quality in it, whereas if your nature is destructive, you
  will look for angles of revenge, leveling, taking wealth from the
  successful, and joyfully celebrating the undoing of everything
  cultivated so that your betters can no longer enjoy what is excellent.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  July 31, 2015

  Consumer Cuckolds

  Getting distracted by nonsense and then swarmed by ignorant mobs allows
  manipulators to drive the direction of society towards short-term
  profits while giving up everything that civilization established, soon
  to be ruins We try many possibilities and then settle on the lowest
  because of economic simplicities and human stupidity. We could just as
  well decide on better results if we had higher quality people and
  superior values exerting pressure to establish good products as the
  standard of our civilization.

  But we are not allowed to take steps to develop better people or a
  superior level of society. Instead we are expected to help divert the
  wealth to all wretched, stupid, useless savages who sneak into a
  country to take what its people created for themselves and their
  descendants.

  Those who created civilization never expected the life work of so many
  of their generations would be not just erased, but cuckolded.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  July 30, 2015

  Gathering to Feast

  Butterflies seek free nature to sustain themselves and grow, and other
  creatures seek the free butterflies that gather to enjoy free nature
  The landscaping in my estate includes many butterfly bushes and flowers
  that attract hummingbirds, infusing an Eden-like quality that visibly
  stirs into motion at daybreak.

  This meeting ground for creatures does not go unnoticed by those who
  want eat creatures lured by tasty pollen. And what are all creatures
  and plants except means of forming and distributing nutrients to one
  another, sustaining a cycle between the transfers?

  I watched a butterfly become trapped in a spider's web, but with
  violent thrusts freed himself and escaped before becoming a celebratory
  meal. Teases too are part of nature! Another butterfly would surely
  soon follow the same path and become ensnared to nourish the spider's
  brood.

  Creatures on my estate live like scrappy backwoods rednecks, making use
  of what rests upon the land, seeking not a job moving around economic
  abstractions, but centered on capturing raw food to feed their family.

  The butterflies congregate for sweet nectar, knowing only that all
  pollen is free. Just as they have discovered an abundant food source,
  other creatures have noticed them and desire to eat their bodies while
  sharing the gains with their families.

  Before measuring with morality, first think of the children!
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  July 29, 2015

  Preservation

  You can spend years talking to an invisible god and begging his favor
  until learning Saul is demonstrating ruthless Middle Eastern marketing.

  For all the faults and dastardly schemes of this product, it
  nevertheless serves to preserve an older form that remains valuable,
  namely meditation, as a reflexive practice of contemplation, a method
  of planning necessary actions to seed the will, and as a cause for
  taking a calm breath in the midst of chaos when most respond with
  panic.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  July 21, 2015

  Questions and Answers

  For a while I liked answers. What did the world consist of? What was
  known or provable about essential types?

  From that, an unwinding of possibility. Everything others had done
  before was possible, as well as much that had not yet been done but
  could be.

  Tasks that others proved attainable could typically by repeated for
  oneself through will, just as they were first achieved that way by
  others.

  Much was not fixed: manipulable, negotiable, unclaimed, or at least
  undeveloped land.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  July 20, 2015

  Celebrity Love

  It could be argued that only celebrities approach relationships
  realistically. Their positions afford them full market information,
  with knowledge of product quality, strategic bluffs, and a library of
  predictive outcomes, allowing for intelligent valuations of talent.

  Most of the public remains stuck in the modern dynamic where the man
  projects delusional hopes and dreams on the female whose strategy is to
  secure enduring financial obligations before the reality of her actual
  substance becomes apparent.

  Celebrities notice love is fleeting and expensive, budgeting the costs
  and preparing for its collapse so they can quickly clean up and rebuild
  with the next prospective partner.

  The traditional form of relationships benefit from investment rather
  than accepting disposability, and like all classical forms is a rare
  sighting today.

  Women who have run the penis gauntlet have the side effect of being
  unable to form an emotional bond, dooming their relationships and
  leaving them with a bewildered stare of endless emptiness.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/_FkLL4rS7T8&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=fr)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  July 16, 2015

  No Facts

  Not only are their opinions not based on facts, they are not even based
  on reported facts or commonly known history.

  Their position is ideological, which is to say based on a fantasy of
  abstractions about a world that doesn't exist and even were it possible
  to construct, would not be desirable.

  This makes discussions difficult, as all assertions are false claims
  about things that never happened about motives that don't exist to
  achieve goals that were never sought.

  Pointing out these errors only shuts down conversation, but letting
  endless nonsense go unchallenged invites even more foolishness that
  mobs repeat in place of accurate tellings.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/z5j21zKldcE&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=fr)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  June 19, 2015

  Death From Above

  Most people do nothing. Determined revolutionaries establish structures
  and organize logistics towards an end. They try to build systems that
  will survive them, as they will soon be killed by drone strikes. Their
  coalition consists of groups with overlapping motives but also
  disagreements, so strategies are built upon fragile common ground.

  We hear of leaders periodically picked off by missile strikes while
  they perform their job. That means either an informer or a signal
  interception revealed the location of an informer. It also means the
  strategy of defeating revolutionaries is to kill leaders, thus it is
  essential to track and identify oppositional participants so they can
  be blown up. It is also cost-effective to fire missiles at suspected
  individuals and locations, as well as maintain a fleet of drones and
  other air support to shoot at people who need to be removed.

  If you are sufficiently inconvenient to the system, you will be
  removed.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/XSdzWEImjY4&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=fr)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  June 18, 2015

  Access to Information

  It never was about access to information. All interested people were
  always able to find information relevant to their curiosity and need
  for knowledge.

  The bluff was called by providing all information and watching quality
  diminish through a surplus of substandard choices.

  Offer total access to the best, and they still prefer celebrities and
  sports. They were born lacking curiosity and intellect, not access to
  information.

  Politicians likewise talk about needing to provide access to education,
  birth control, healthy food, etc, but full access to these is already
  available, just not always with an agreement that the bill will be sent
  to a neighbor who is forced to pay for these nice things others want.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  June 17, 2015

  Tolerance for the Freak Show

  Throw your trash anywhere you feel like it, as it is your right and no
  one can stop your free expression to make your mark on the world
  Littering is a bizarre behavior that should need no signs or law for
  its prohibition, as its consequences and imposition should be obvious.
  Its proper punishment should be exile or execution, as the act of
  littering definitively demonstrates disregard for society and
  willingness to create new messes for others to clean up so that someone
  without patience and discipline can enjoy the convenience of throwing
  trash out of their window.

  But it could be well argued that we should tolerate and embrace
  littering. After all, it's just individual expression that harms no
  one, and in any case it's impossible to judge another person's
  behavior, especially when tolerance is more important than
  consideration of results.

  Littering is a victimless crime. No one has ever died from littering.
  The act of littering is between the litterer and the ground, so there's
  no need for state involvement.

  Trash was born to be thrown away, not cloistered by bossy hegemonic
  waste management overlords trying to sell you 50 gallon bags that don't
  exist in nature. No animal uses trash bags, as the whole of nature is a
  giant public trash dump, yet the artificial social construct of
  so-called trash bags is imposed upon humans.

  Sometimes it's hard to believe that people still express litterphobic
  and cistrash opinions in public. Perhaps it is proof that our
  educational system and social justice campaigns to indoctrinate with
  the correct opinions and punish opposing ideas needs more vigor and
  violence to stifle those who think for themselves and pathetically
  cling to reality.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  June 16, 2015

  Bird Pollution

  Birds echo the noise fed to them Our "creators" either produce trivial
  novelty or rehash popular cliches that dummies want to hear. This same
  thinking dominates products and institutions, pushing out original
  ideas and fresh considerations.

  Accordingly, technology remains firmly attached to wrong-headed ideas
  because creators are uncreative and insensitive, without consideration
  for humans who will be subjected to their works.

  Products continue to beep in annoying monotones, alarming more than
  informing -- as if the only sound modern technology can make are beeps
  that no one wants to hear -- and soon birds become familiar with this
  artless language of sick consciousness and begin to emulate the droning
  beep of car locks, house alarms, and appliances.

  We should instead pipe symphonies out the window so birds can sing
  music instead of repeating joyless beeps back at us, though that aural
  mirror serves as a useful mocking reminder of our boring uncreativity.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/p4VzGHsklak&color1=0x006699&color2=       
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=fr)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  June 15, 2015

  Directing a Machine

  Stradivari put into public service as a living standard Modernity
  accustoms citizens to giving up half of their income to fund systems
  that act against their interests, but paying for the enemy's war
  efforts was not the case just two generations ago. The wealthy endowed
  institutions to support traditional excellence, for example donating
  books of antiquity, filling museums with classical works of genius, or
  funding university chairs or departments devoted to the study of 19th
  century philosophy.

  No rebel can compete with classical works, not even government funded
  art. The modern art wing is an embarrassment that provokes a
  combination of laughter and depression after visitors realize the works
  were not recently vandalized by a graffiti rampage, but exist in their
  original form.

      "This collection of instruments belongs to every one of you, for
      they are given to our government to hold and protect forever. They
      may be heard in concerts held in the library, and through the
      medium of the radio, by an even larger audience. If the
      appreciation and enjoyment of music in America will be advanced
      thereby, the purpose of my gift will have been fulfilled."
      [Gertrude Clarke Whittall, upon donating five Stradivari
      instruments to the Library of Congress.]

  Its important to steer public institutions to act on behalf of what is
  great instead of what is inferior and hopeless. Government can be used
  to enforce excellence without reacting to mendacious agitation and the
  misrepresentations of petty rebels advancing their personal interests.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  June 14, 2015

  Normalcy

  Youth is taught to venerate and romanticize rebellion, individualism,
  and the wildly irregular as alternatives to normal living, never
  looking beyond the image to notice that these approaches almost always
  fail to meet their stated objectives and impose a secret tax on
  civilization by requiring others to fund rebuilding of what rebels
  destroy.

  The actual motivation for rebellion is a selfish need for drama and
  attention, sometimes fueled by mental illness.

  Its advocates have never considered that a normal and healthy life is
  desirable.

  What are today's rebels fighting for? Obesity, third-world immigration,
  ignorance, irrationality, and political victimhood identities. These
  approaches are burdens on the healthy, perhaps even deliberate
  passive-aggressive revenge that force the good to divert money and
  labor for rehabilitation of everything the rebels trample.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  May 8, 2015

  Secret Gifts

  Eat all the cookies you can, no matter what happens, because consuming
  flour, sugar, and bad chocolate is more important than anything else
  you could be doing His face reveals defeat and despair. The girl
  charmed him with bright eyes, an attractive face, and athletic body,
  securing her target and promptly rescinding her beauty by means of
  cookies and cake.

  He turned his passions to imaginary escape through video games and
  television, feeling let down, swindled, and trapped, yet remaining
  dutifully bound in loyalty to injustice.

  Somehow, perhaps after a night of heavy drinking, they managed to have
  a child, an important life event she used to strategically transition
  to welterweight.

  You never really get the full story, instead only observing the loss
  without a full picture of its underlying movements and confessions. Was
  she doomed to quickly become a mess or did she just stop caring about
  being appealing? Or was it angry retaliation against her husband?
  Perhaps profound disillusion with the princess fantasy that was not all
  it had promised since childhood? Or a true addiction to junk food
  despite terrible consequences?

  It's unclear what went wrong when so many better outcomes could have
  been chosen, but I always feel blessed and suspect failed unsustained
  romances were especially sweet gifts with a parting reprieve to kindly
  spare me of what they knew they were going to do to themselves and
  their saddled partner.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/cetTpgRMljE&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=fr)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  April 20, 2015

  Taught Helplessness

  If you try to stop the impossible, you will expend energy for no
  result. Those who promote this method and tell you it is important are
  either insane or diabolical for taking away years of your life
  attempting what no one could ever do. The purpose of crazy slogans
  ("stop sexual assault", "stop war", "stop elder abuse") is to frustrate
  with powerlessness, much like the purpose of communism and related
  ideologies is to humiliate by means of compelling obedience to a false
  oath.

  Even with 99% consensus on stopping sexual assault, war, and elder
  abuse none of these would become less infrequent, as almost no one
  instigates or defends these activities. Producing slogans urging people
  to stop these acts is a fraud.

  When real problems linger deep, it is good to distract by proposing a
  pre-fabricated answer that is impossible for anyone to achieve or
  contribute towards in the slightest way, other than to claim support.

  Those who perform violent acts to achieve ends they desire cannot be
  reasoned with into preemptive renunciation of their methods or aims,
  nor could any citizen patrol become aware of imminent violent actions
  to stop them once a transgressive act becomes apparent.

  No one can do a thing to stop sexual assault, short of instructing
  others in combat skills and weapon training. And if you are not
  fervently teaching martial arts and weapon use, clearly you are not
  serious about stopping sexual assault. If you will not help, then who
  will? Your reluctance to help innocents means they become victims, and
  therefore you are part of the problem until you join this sensible
  campaign to stop sexual assault rather than promote it or allow it to
  gain momentum and increased popularity.

  These slogans attract people with big hearts, and then spin them crazy
  as they attempt to do the impossible, ultimately draining their energy,
  making them disgusted with humanity, and appealing for governments to
  seize more power from citizens to control nature and illusions.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  April 19, 2015

  Putin the Pragmatist

  Judo grappling Judo competitors probe for weaknesses to exploit,
  detecting imbalances to manipulate into defeat. A combination of
  knowledge and experience inculcates with a lexicon of available moves,
  counters, progressions, and submissions that are known to work when
  properly applied. The devoted student can build a successful career
  while innovating nothing, merely applying teachings more thoroughly
  than others who will fail to apply precise techniques or recognize
  exploitable openings and apply necessary defenses.

  Putin was trained in Judo and the KGB system of control by force and
  intimidation, watching the Soviet Union collapse as its centralized
  planning couldn't sustain a system that depended on extracting wealth
  from occupied countries to subsidize much poorer Russia, which was
  unable to overcome the flaws and Soviet trauma of its native population
  to develop an economy that did more than sell off its natural
  resources.

      There is a substantial school of thought which holds that the
      Kremlin will never act to control Russia's rampant alcoholism
      because it would prefer that its subjects remain in a state of
      inebriation.
      [Russian Vodka Prices Set to Increase by 30% in July]

      Russian President Vladimir Putin has ordered his government to rein
      in rising vodka prices, as he battles to preserve his popularity
      amid a worsening economic crisis.
      [Putin Orders Government to Keep Vodka Cheap as Russian Inflation
      Soars]

  Putin carefully watched the public management of opinion, which under
  the Soviet system required citizens to repeat obvious lies while living
  in fear of neighbors reporting any overheard unsanctioned ideas.
  Perestroika led to glastnost, Russian for suicide by honesty and
  self-undoing, by granting public permission to speak openly about
  history, culture, politics, and the methods of government operation. As
  the Soviet Union was based on force and propaganda, open discussion
  about its foundation could only lead to its dissolution, too diseased
  to reform and economically sustained only by the illegal occupation of
  its non-Russian members.

  Soulless bulk architecture crammed people into villages of tiny
  apartments. Russians sought refuge in vodka to forget their situation.
  Bread lines were long, with meat, fruit, and vegetables rare and
  expensive. The glorious system left people in miserable poverty and
  obedient to official state opinions, fearful of aggressive imprisonment
  for those accused of dissent.

      Food in Soviet Russia was very hard to come by. One did not go to a
      supermarket like here and find walls filled with milk, meat,
      vegetables, candy, and all kinds of wonderful and tasty things.
      There were massive shortages of almost everything. Just about the
      only thing that was consistently in stock was bread. I remember a
      particularly rough year, 1986, where we ate nothing but bread and
      water for 5 months. Meat was extremely rare, we were lucky to have
      meat once or maybe twice a month. When it was available, it was
      usually very low grade sausage (the sort of stuff that would lead
      to massive lawsuits and meat packing plants being closed here in
      America, but to us it was delicious) that was 2.2 rubles per kilo.
      The good sausage, when it was available was 4.7 rubles per kilo and
      we could rarely afford it. Chicken was the next most common meat,
      which we had about once or twice a year and cost about 7 rubles for
      a small whole chicken. I never had beef until I moved to America,
      it was too expensive.
      [In Soviet Russia]

  Putin's positions in the KGB, FSB, and politics privileged him with a
  terrific view of Russia's actual structure and reasons for the
  strategies others had used. Yeltsin appointed him Putin Prime Minister
  and resigned shortly thereafter, making Putin President.

                         Russia is Grand Tartarie

  Soviet ideology was little more than centralized control. It mastered
  propaganda primarily used for public consumption. Putin correctly saw
  communism as bankrupt and did not want to continue its form,
  recognizing that leaving it behind created an opportunity for new
  politics.

  He measured his options, but could not find a desirable path or end
  goal. The economy had oil, metals, and minerals, but the previously
  occupied nations had regained their independence and no longer could
  Russia confiscate their wealth.

  As president, Putin consolidated power and acquired shares of national
  resources to make himself wealthy. He reckoned that Russia could not be
  reformed and was too steeped in corruption to develop into a normal
  country, but he could skillfully use a full playbook of proven
  techniques for personal gain by expertly playing the system, a scheme
  Karen Dawisha called kleptocratic authoritarianism.

  By some estimates Putin accumulated over $70 billion, and those loyal
  to him also gained wealth by controlling natural resources acquired far
  below market prices.

  Putin fishing For an appealing public image, Putin invented a tough-guy
  character utilizing staged actions shots, often shirtless and in nature
  , to provide a fantasy to distract citizens from essential problems
  that keep the nation impoverished and disorganized. Much like Kim Jong
  Il's golfing records and official fables about his deeds, Putin's
  adventures are similarly legendary.

  He played to the legends of backwards and broken people, appealing to a
  supposed Slavic brotherhood (justifying invasion of Slavic countries),
  the glory of the Motherland, and the need to restore Russia to a
  greatness it only attained in the official mythology of the Russian
  Empire.

  But Russians are just a small minority in a large land of Taters. The
  Viking Oleg formed a Slavic state by conquering Kiev in 882, spanning
  most of Belarus and Ukraine, until being conquered by Mongols (Tatars)
  in 1223. The Tatars conquered the Bulgars and destroyed the major
  cities of Kievan Rus and ruled over feuding cities, extracting tribute
  from them while ruling cities such as Moscow until 1480. The Tatars
  were most closely identified with Western Russia, which was called the
  Golden Horde.

  Moscow Isn't Slavic

  Moscow rose to replace Kiev as the center of Russia, with a population
  overrun by Mongolians and remnants of Finnish tribes, with Slavs mostly
  remaining in the original Slavic lands and not migrating to Moscow.
  Under Ivan the Terrible, this huge territory became a multi-ethnic and
  multi-religious state, expanding into Siberia where it annexed a large
  Muslim population as well as Muslim lands in the south as it expanded
  its empire to the east. Though the Western border was part Caucasoid,
  it was increasingly Mongoloid to the east and distinguished itself as
  Eurasian for its mix of features in a population of Turks, Mongols,
  Finns, and Slavs.

  From the Middle Ages until the 20th century, Russia was called Tartary
  or Tartaria. The Taters are known for being semi-nomadic and able to
  endure great hardship, unbothered by the poor living conditions,
  hunger, cold, or brutality they regularly encounter and consider
  normal. This was their standard of customary civilization and they were
  the backbone of 20th and 21st century Russia, able to sustain with
  little complaint when conditions turned bad and happily enduring if
  told their suffering had a greater purpose and others who lived better
  were their enemies and would be harmed in revenge.

  Russian Propaganda

  Russia uses a careful and repetitive strategy to destabilize and occupy
  neighboring countries. Previously when it occupied countries, it sent
  in millions of Russians and applied a Russification policy to crush the
  native population, replace its culture with Russian culture, and ban
  the country's language. When those nations regained independence,
  Russia foments discontent by piping in fictional stories of Russian
  oppression so Russians who choose not to return to Russia can become
  angry at the people in whose nation they live. Russia funds uprisings
  in an effort to create situations where it claims the need to intervene
  and protect the people it placed there when it forcefully occupied
  those nations. From there, it will annex territory as part of a
  long-term plan of expansion.

  Russia has the best researched propaganda and uses it with the most
  focused implementation of any nation. Russia's propaganda does not even
  try to promote their causes with praise and justification, but has
  found it better to confuse all conversation using a Huxlean barrage of
  nonsensical babble that cripples rational discussion so that any
  critique of Russia is lost among the noise. With analysis of their
  actions prevented, it faces little scrutiny. The army of propaganda
  soldiers are able to quickly overtake a discussion of Russia with
  insane theories and premises, posting new ones father than old ones can
  be refuted.

  This too can be seen as a means of survival for Mongolian descendants
  on a giant, harsh stretch of land where nothing is easy, civilization
  is barren, and great suffering is to be expected and imposed.

  Restoring Russia's historic name to Tarteria and studying its history
  makes it actions understandable, as well as clarifying what to expect
  of its future.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/O8RSbEx8JdA&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=fr)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  April 18, 2015

  Liberal Faiths

  If you tolerate and accept everything, you believe in nothing and have
  no direction or principles except whoredom Priests are clever. They
  can't easily invert or negate the premises of their religion's beliefs,
  but they can promote a succession of half-steps and interpretations
  that inevitably lead to entirely different conclusions than those held
  since their religion was established.

  These are the same people that when tasked with increasing the number
  of their believers, instead populate their churches with already
  indoctrinated believers from the third-world. They neither attempt to
  attract first-worlders to their religion nor fix the conditions that
  drive first world populations away from marriage and reproduction, but
  instead contribute to replacing the first-world population.

  To meet their short-term quotas, they join the forces of evil and
  contribute to further disposition and decline, harming the whole in a
  way that is difficult to undo. For this wickedness, they earn a little
  personal advantage.

  Like politicians, they privatize gains for themselves while creating
  massive lasting losses for others. They trade the future away and evade
  responsibility, knowing other problems will distract people from
  holding them accountable for what they have done.

  When faith is liberalized, it does so as an appeal to popularity. A
  liberal faith only sustains vague resemblances while it justifies and
  tolerates everything popular that is contrary to its original mission.
  It has been hijacked; its goal abandoned, now just a vehicle controlled
  by pirates.

  The pews are fuller, but there is no message worth communicating to
  them.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  April 17, 2015

  What Makes Ideas Go Away?

  Ideas can be easily murdered in the womb, and often are, with many
  acting to actively prevent sensible births and dislodge miracle
  conceptions. Those who love ideas live far away from these brutes.

  What kills magic?

    • The cell phone -- among friends and lovers, phones are silent and
      put away because they interrupt with trivialities. Don't be a
      spastic squirrel playing with your phone near good people.
    • Noise and talking -- filling all silence with sounds and babble
      will crush the possibility of thought. No one will wonder about
      anything or do anything other than react.
    • Practical concerns -- if one knows what they are doing, they
      already know the theory and goal and further discussion is merely
      expounding on the trivial. But to think about a topic with detached
      and bemused curiosity brings new thought and eventual mastery.

  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  April 11, 2015

  We Choose to Live as Exceptions

  Testing to sterilize, constructing an abstraction of imaginary
  relations and numbers to approximate, yet miss the whole entirely until
  there is a perfect estimate that fails to much more than stand in as a
  lifeless dummy From any objective perspective, the situation is
  ridiculous. Our home is a planet flying around a nuclear explosion
  around a galaxy moving through space that is infinite, or seemingly so.

  We live off the planet's bounty, eating what grows from seeds on its
  soil, temporarily borrowing protein from the flesh of other animals
  that eke out a living here, and eventually give back by turning over
  our expired bodies to feed insects and soil.

  We might never escape the earth save for a few rocket experiments,
  losing our one chance to build something great by burning away
  non-renewable fuels to sit in traffic en route to numbing office jobs.

  Human problems once settled have become unsettled. The natural has been
  subverted to override instincts, made difficult and baffling; the
  abominable prolific and common, blind of looming consequences.

  Despite all hints about how the current direction is likely to
  conclude, we will be neither victims nor whiners, but remain true to
  ourselves and cheerful about what once was.

  In the middle of hostile nothingness where almost everything created is
  soon destroyed, and a short life is promised eternal death, the best of
  our type nevertheless aspired to peak creations of symphonies, fine
  art, literature, philosophy -- most of these best works now unknown to
  educated moderns, obscured by trivial entertainment products.

  Civilization was so capable it branched out into exquisite novelty such
  as doctors acquiring and spreading knowledge in fixing ailments of the
  human body. Others created inspired architecture and internal design
  that made living beautiful and functional. Some built transportation
  machines and bridges to connect distant plots of land, while those
  living off the land mastered the possibilities of cuisine, most often
  by maximizing possibilities with limited raw materials of dubious
  quality.

  All this will be lost forever as the people with ability and spirit are
  gradually replaced by those who can neither create nor maintain great
  creations, but once there stood many who were beautiful exceptions.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/e4dT8FJ2GE0&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=fr)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  April 10, 2015

  Degenerate Consciousness

  From the schools of business and war: lead with your strengths. We
  neglected our strengths for the immediately compelling drama of
  crumbling. The chemistry was primal. No one will ever know or
  appreciate you like that again.

  The damage sets in: rape, wreckage, disbelief, and bitter lasting
  scars. Precious moments aborted by blunder.

  What else can you call a squanderer of divine experience but a
  degenerate consciousness?

  "Not everything that goes around comes back around - you know" - one
  realizes too late, and settles broken, desperate, defeated, and
  stripped soulless by a succession of fatal decisions.

  Woeful creature! Others see your folly and know what you are supposed
  to do, but not you yourself.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  April 5, 2015

  Thank God For Fools

  It sounded clever at first, so upbeat phrases were sold to suckers who
  paid well for the privilege of getting first cut at acting like
  innovative leaders.

  The fools used them on others and imagined themselves wise. No quick
  day of reckoning came.

  This led to grand comedy. A tractor trailer driver trying to deliver a
  shipment called the house owner to tell him his driveway could not be
  traversed by such a large vehicle.

  "Don't tell me what you can't do. Tell me what you can do."

  Even with broken English, the driver knew he was dealing with a fool
  who didn't understand the situation and had poor skills for basic
  assessment.

  To demonstrate the fool's error, he drove as far up the driveway as
  possible so the impossibility and its corollaries could be understood.

  Only when the owner saw the predicament caused by the foolish
  statements he had paid top dollar to learn did he realize that he was
  sold assertive positivity that was premised on pressuring others into
  compliance regardless of the situation.

  It was a useful weapon for disarming employees with bad consciousness
  and was otherwise inapplicable.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/OFOUMXtGyD0&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=fr)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  April 4, 2015

  Not Coming Back

  Getting big, wide, and sloppy is not an event or a change, nor
  blameable on an overactive thyroid, slow metabolism, or other hastily
  invested scapegoat. It just shows a lack of caring about easily
  preventable causes. If you didn't want a belly, you wouldn't be eating
  donuts and drinking soda.

  You didn't really care, so now you are inflamed and acting like a
  savage blaming magical causes instead of the plainly obvious one of
  your own doing.

  Who will be fooled by this? You are not quite clever enough to trick
  yourself, and anyone who has delved into the psychology of the
  overweight is familiar with their denial, schemes, and profound
  dishonesty.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/mH8MJgwOUrI&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=fr)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  April 3, 2015

  Sensitivity and Triggering

  When dealing with people of European heritage, one must keep in mind
  that in the last 50 years the changes imposed on them have deprived
  them of family, friends, neighbors, and the civilization they created,
  effectively exiling them in an island-type seclusion where they remain
  without contact with warm souls or any level of society beyond the
  trivial or transactional. In this state of spiritual poverty, they are
  trapped alone to consume entertainment products and self-medicate,
  drifting progressively further away from health and sanity. With no one
  capable of maintaining it, everything their ancestors created slowly
  grows decrepit and will soon be lost.

  Out of this trauma, they are accustomed to reacting against a fictional
  world spawned from the madness of their lonely vacuum. When making
  contact, you must assess their psychological soundness and motives for
  telling you anything in order to rehabilitate their reactions and
  assumptions in stated goals that are wildly off course. Trying to fix
  their faulty reasoning will not help their problem -- their emotional
  tantrum is the core damage that must be addressed. Once health and
  purpose are restored, sensibility will naturally return as well.

  But first you have to get past their depressive haze and paranoid
  aggression that wishes revenge on any convenient target. It is not
  trying to solve problems -- it is a wounded animal lashing out.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/v1qKy4cMPUI&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=111&hl=fr)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  March 29, 2015

  Cheering for Science

  Scientists aren't mistaken for nimble thinkers.

  Their thinking is belabored and they fall back upon an apparatus of
  rules, without which they are naked and become unable to reason
  sensibly about basic topics.

  Intuition drives the curious mind to wonder "what is really going on
  here?", and from that "how will this develop and play out?"

  All people with a good record predicting outcomes use rational
  relations as their basis, though not necessarily a formalized system
  that can be taught to people who don't sense causal patterns and their
  consequences.

  Those who need a formal science possess little natural intuition, and
  their joy of science in the abstract is the relief of being given rules
  by which to reason, as their natural reason is limited and poorly
  constituted.

  Religions with doctrinal texts capture their confession of inherent
  defects -- consider the instinct of those who needed rules to tell them
  not to murder, steal, or covet another man's oxen.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  March 28, 2015

  Exploding Emotions

  Every ebb and flow swells and bursts. No cumulative increase merely
  holds. All grows tense and taut from pressure, stretched overfull and
  in need of release.

  Causes can be traced to roots that aren't easily pulled out, but can be
  poisoned and replaced by more controllable variants.

  Previously only kings had jesters who entertained by playing the role
  of fools, relieving the stress of keeping a kingdom healthy.

  Today most peasants imagine themselves kings for flipping burgers,
  attending meetings, and recycling email. They have giant televisions
  for amusement, though the madness of the news suffices for a daily dose
  of folly and hubris that is typically interpreted as having no cause or
  meaning.

  A pattern reveals tendencies, which is offensive to the notion of
  spontaneous individual creativity.

  To be fair, who could ever grow beyond their potential, which reveals
  itself at an early age? Or grow at all if their intellectual interests
  consists of defending whatever teachers and entertainers told them to
  believe?

  Pointing out patterns is heresy. That it irks the lazy and stupid
  reminds that it is important.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  March 27, 2015

  Mentally Ill

  There is a reason someone chooses to aim a plane at a mountain, even if
  another does not agree with the conclusion it implies When you walk a
  path around a small lake, you know where you will end up, so it cannot
  be considered an adventure to take a circular path that soon concludes
  at your starting point.

  Thus to say someone who deliberately flies a plane into a mountain is
  mentally ill really says little more than the choice is contrary to
  fashion, which says nothing about the reason it was performed.

  There are a thousand better ways to suicide that pose no harm to
  others, if one was concerned with harm caused to others. That the pilot
  wanted to take 149 others down with him was an act of revenge on
  society. Why he wanted revenge hasn't been disclosed, but the act
  wasn't about his sudden need to be obliterated or a material motivation
  to destroy the plane. He knew the plane was packed and he wanted to
  strike at its passengers, and society by proxy. You'll think about him
  every time you see a pilot exit the flight deck to visit the lavatory.

  We dismiss his acts by calling him mentally ill, a designation now
  shared with the previously mentally deranged, a phrase disfavored in
  most countries because it has become impolite to be too honest. From
  political pressure, we merge dissimilar concepts in language, losing
  meaning and our ability to communicate clearly. This movement claims a
  motive of preventing people from being offended, but instead has
  provoked strange people claiming to suffer from triggering and
  microaggressions -- terrible acts for which lynch mobs of social
  justice warriors gather to judge ideas and words damaging to their
  ideology so they can gain power by restricting critical analysis and
  coherent ideas currently accessible from unrestricted sources.

  Some will say they can't understand why someone would take 149 innocent
  people along with him to death. How polite and proper to disavow
  understanding! Perhaps they really can't understand -- and yet there
  was a discernible reason they could comprehend by considering the
  decision behind his act.

      Quite simply: he assessed their worth and judged modern society.
      You might not agree, or even dislike his measurement and choice,
      and this too is just another assessment and judgment.

  Call it a tantrum if that helps avoid considering his diagnosis. After
  years of clever taunts saying "start by killing yourself", he summarily
  answered with an act of steel conviction, perhaps imagining the
  passengers as the fools who offered cheap rhetoric instead of digging
  in to help solve pressing problems. In frustration with their denial
  and inadequacy, he offered his considered conclusion, promoted on news
  stations worldwide.

  As Nietzsche advised, we won't understand much until moving beyond
  morality to assess facts as they are, rather than repeating popular
  slogans of fake sympathy and indulging in hysterical displays over what
  happened. That of course assumes you want to understand more than cry
  and proclaim hopeless confusion.

  The pilot was young, able to participate in society, well enough
  trained to fly complex aircraft, including programming it to descend
  into a mountain and lock the other pilot out of the cockpit at an
  opportune moment. Though junior in status, he noticed the comfortable
  life and affluence of older pilots, and that his future was promised to
  have the same -- but decided it was not desirable.

  Calling him crazy is an attempt to marginalize his decision to make it
  seem random and disconnected from a rational cause. It would indict
  society to say he did not consider a career as a pilot in this society
  to be a worthy aspiration. Earn a lot of money for the easy work of
  taking off and landing, marry a promiscuous girl who lures him into
  marriage so she can grow large with cupcakes and ice-cream, alternating
  between annoying and boring him while being useless to help around the
  house? He looked at the realistic avenues ahead and could not find any
  that were desirable, or even tolerable. He knew what opportunities his
  parents had -- those have been extinguished and replaced with degraded
  forms that fail at their necessary purpose.

  It's fine to disagree with someone's decision, but disingenuous to
  pretend the chosen act doesn't convey an unmistakable message.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/xlDXQdgx_QU&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=fr)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  March 14, 2015

  Don't Stick It In Crazy

  Crazy is as crazy does, with nothing to show but depletion Crazy is
  wonderfully exciting as it struggles against dissatisfaction. Crazy
  tries to scratch an itch it can't quite identify, using rituals of
  pleasure and illusion that combines consumption of sex, drugs, and
  religion in search of temporarily escape.

  There is no greater freedom than total abandonment of purpose. Living
  with crazy allows you to experience the limitless it derives from not
  being connected to the actual world, nor even very interested in it.
  After a while, you can sense what it will do next, and when it fulfills
  expectations you still marvel over how much secret suffering it endures
  to pay the costs of its recklessness.

  Crazy people often have above average intelligence, which somewhat
  saves them from the immediate brunt of their actions. Their baseline
  state is troubled, and basic accomplishments evade them despite faking
  the appearance of competence and healthy goals.

  They will tell you they desire an independent life of an unstable
  person. Mission accomplished! Were you to have access to their earlier
  years, you'd see the pattern that forms an extended history of nutty
  dysfunction, trapping a broken soul in marginal living.

      Origin: there was never a masculine figure in their lives able to
      halt crazy exhibitions and impose stability.

  Towards mutual dismay, you can't get anywhere with crazy. You can only
  have great moments, soon destroyed by atrocious decisions and
  appetites. Anything good in your relationship will be negated by a
  perpetually lurking binge.

  It's nothing personal, and almost nothing ever is. A bumper car smashes
  about in a mess out of compulsion and power of possibility, sure to be
  stricken and liberated to strike others in an orgy of collision.

  The crazy stumble about in dazed wonderment, like a fighter repeatedly
  stricken in the head. Every lasting pain was supposed to be innocent
  fun, but left high hopes and promises in shambles of free fall letdown.
  When they eventually realize they did it to themselves, the enemy in
  the mirror comes into full focus. To neutralize this threat, they
  retreat from themselves and all they know -- to start over with
  nothing, realizing everything so far was colossal error.

  It follows that the more radical the change, the better, switching from
  a known constellation of defects to an unknown system they've heard
  championed by others of dubious wisdom, honesty, motives, and reason.
  Yeah, but still -- could any random path really be much worse than
  their perfect record of missteps? More correctly, it is not their
  traits that need to be suppressed and artificially replaced by fakery
  and pretension, only the purpose and manner in which they focus their
  traits. Crazy has little perspective on its actions, and even less on
  its remedies of self-abnegation.

  The wholesale replacement of their will, values, and ideas instills a
  new person, namely a phony one constructed to match their notion of
  venerable expectations. They don't really think their adopted
  assumptions and conclusions are correct or truthful, but merely useful
  for the character they wish to exhibit to inhibit their overwhelming
  impulses.

      The crazy wild streak exhausts itself and becomes a boring rule
      based robot no longer interested in much more than safe avoidance.

  Perpetual fog is terrifying. What do you do when you can't see towards
  any edge or beyond? Madness reigns untamed, attempting a conception of
  rules to fake sanity, needing to extirpate instincts that were never
  mastered towards positive aims. Hollow husk! A sad creature occupies
  its shell, carefully limiting movements in order to reduce
  multiplicative errors sure to occur from unhindered exercise of poor
  judgment.

  Souls too need to be maintained or else there's nothing to salvage when
  the self-abuse finally ends.

  embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/oLOt2V144Ts&color1=0x006699&color2=
  0x54abd6&start=0&hl=fr)
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  March 8, 2015

  Whom Should Assert?

  Cultural Marxists believe in a persistent revolution of the plebes that
  keeps high culture, ideas, and tradition at bay, replaced by the
  fashionable ideas of the day in a society of peasants grinding and
  gyrating against one another.

  Argument reduced to mere assertion simplifies to a world of unconscious
  fantasies and fears. There is no need for facts or sensibility, only
  bold pronouncements of how the world should be. The cocksure debater
  tells of unfair dread in a world oppressed by unicorns, and therefore
  unicorns exist and the world is oppressed by them.

  Questioning or critically inspecting claims is considered rude,
  insensitive, and other socially coercive words intended to prevent
  rational measurement.

  Thus we conjure illusions and return to a time of societies governed by
  superstitions, stupidity, and ignorance while abolishing the culture of
  sensible people who could prevent the worst of this fate.
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  March 2, 2015

  Secular Churches

  Transforming universities from institutions of knowledge into secular
  churches of ideology disregards the accumulated wisdom of civilization
  in favor of specious assertions resulting from mental illness,
  resentment, envy, and feelings of inferiority.

  It attempts to divert young minds to ideology, callously converting
  them into apologists, crusaders, and loyal liars on its behalf. They'll
  gradually grow angry as they try in vain to use its recipes to cheat
  and supplant reality by aggressively repeating the premises, theories,
  and conclusions of a system -- all invented as a way for a leader to
  gain power by using followers spreading its erroneous ideas. Their best
  efforts to wield this ideology as a navigational tool will leave them
  frustrated when it changes nothing, and most will double down on their
  ideology in hopes of gaining its promised reward.

  Ideology is the gentlest and kindest control mechanism. When a student
  points out a logical flaw or lack of connection to reality, they are
  asked to retract their statement, open their mind to the wonderful
  truth of the enlightened ideology, and not to disrupt the class by
  pointing out errors of beliefs that all good people accept without
  question.

  In a cult, this type of control is understandable so the doctrine is
  never closely scrutinized and the cult leader's sex party isn't
  interrupted. For young people trying to learn about the world and the
  civilization that is theirs to inherit, teaching nonsense with
  demonstrably false and dim-witted constructs is a terrible disservice
  -- doubly so when they are paying for the privilege despite originally
  intending to obtain a factually based education.

      The process of ideological teaching is conventional.
        □ Teach the ideology as modern and enlightened. Praise its
          followers as brilliant for obeying its doctrine.
        □ Mention other ideologies as old and unenlightened. Condemn
          those who see other approaches as more realistic and producing
          better results.
        □ Misrepresent the ideas and successes of other ideologies.
          Slander alternatives and encourage avoiding them, even if they
          remain technically legal to examine.
        □ Claim great successes of your ideology, even if there are just
          a few coincidental individual examples and great collective
          misery. Call your ideology innovative and a work of genius,
          even if it was tried and failed long ago because it is
          incorrect and harmful.
        □ Promote the ideology's popularity as more important than the
          inveracity of its claims or its damage to civilization.

      Religious-based education is bad, but still allows a small percent
      of people to use its metaphors toward a deeper understanding, which
      is the original purpose for which religions were invented.
      Ideological based education teachings fail to achieve any positive
      gain despite their claims of beneficent intent, and in practice are
      observed promoting bitter grievances, conspiracy claims, false
      notions of nature, undesirable social goals, disharmony, distrust,
      vengeance, and bad motives.

      Ideology and its narratives have aggressively stretched beyond any
      legitimate aims as they infiltrated healthy institutions,
      overreaching and leaning too far to remain stable, consequently
      making themselves absurd and unbelievable. The next wave of
      students will denounce institutional lies and NEVER FORGET this
      outburst of madness and superstition.

      Restoring the gods would restore a healthy outlet for superstitious
      instincts and prevent secular churches from trying to pad its pews
      through unscrupulous means that leave lasting scars on the minds of
      youth.
      ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
     
      March 1, 2015

      MMA as Reality Check

          Those who love reality find joy in the simplicity of direct
          unadulterated truth.

          Those who hate reality seek protective shelter in complicated
          subterfuge that prohibits examination and confrontation.

      You don't get to hide in a fight, and you can't keep the world away
      with clever social constructs. You must prevail over an opponent
      who is trying to prevail over you. These dynamics are baffling to
      the educated who make their living in bubbles of manipulation and
      compliance.

      MMA is a high stakes strategy game like chess, except errors are
      punished with repeated punches to the head, strangulation, or limb
      overextention.

      Many strategies can be honed to craft a winning career. You can
      play by going slowly and methodically to dissemble an opponent a
      piece at a time, strike aggressively to collapse him all at once,
      overload with feigns and surprise gambits, exhaust by pushing a
      pace the opponent can't sustain, or focus on a particular weakness
      for a submission opportunity.

      The game isn't personal and actions don't impart intent. You might
      be punched in the head as a normal course of sparring, a knock out
      attempt, or just so that you move your arms to defend against
      punching so that the opponent can wage an attack on the moved arms.
      After the contest, most fighters will wipe off the blood and
      honorably shake hands or exchange a friendly embrace. They've
      experienced a great battle and appreciate their opponent's effort
      with empathetic awareness of what it entailed.

      Those unwilling to engage in violence will also fail to understand
      its language and nuanced truths, relegating themselves to talking
      about a world of fictional conditions and relations that don't
      actually exist.

      embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/lkHvL9kHzDQ&color1=0x006699&color2=
      0x54abd6&start=0&hl=fr)
      ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
     
      February 21, 2015

      Art by Committee

      Imagine art by committee -- it would satisfy all the bullet points
      agreed upon in the pre-planning meeting, yet would be completely
      barren and communicate nothing essential or original.

      The utility of committees depends upon subdividing tasks so they
      can be fulfilled independently, so are accomplished faster than a
      single person performing all the work. No great awareness of the
      entire project is needed, just skilled labor able to follow
      directions for their part. Committees work mechanically and achieve
      mechanical results, never accidentally reaching the creative or
      thoughtful.

      Now consider the solitary artist who must conceive every aspect of
      his creation under pain of it being flat or stillborn should he
      overlook a single detail. A complete vision is a prerequisite.

      Every great work comes from a single mind.

      embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/b2pEA_oZn_E&color1=0x006699&color2=
      0x54abd6&start=0&hl=fr)
      ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
     
      February 9, 2015

      Creating Privilege

      Those who lack privilege are envious of those who have it.

      Privilege is established through a track record of repetitive
      success and allegiance to high standards, showing that one is not
      an actor of low character merely talking and posturing about what
      they can't deliver. The mental health of society depends on
      privilege because it's rewarding to help the smart and active, and
      depressing to have your time or perfectly good resources wasted on
      people whose instinct is to predictably squander it.

      The privileged have developed themselves beyond the trivial.

      Where the unprivileged react to situations with expressive
      outbursts and frustration, the privileged quietly use reason and
      effective action to solve problems by first understanding their
      causes and then sensibly driving a situation to desirable ends.

      The envious wish all were equal in dysfunction and incapability so
      that none would move beyond those conditions. They are angrier
      still that some know how to avoid failure and its agents -- and
      refuse to invest in schemes that won't work.

      The non-privileged want what the privileged have created for
      themselves, through the non-privileged tend to do little more than
      demand their right to be given what others have created.

      It is wise to create privilege by taking considered action and
      demonstrating one will not be a failure like the others, unless you
      know that is how your plans will end up.
      ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
     
      February 7, 2015

      Diversity as Magic

      Genius creates civilization, and there must be capability of genius
      in a population or else it will never gather enough minds able to
      birth great works, or enough excellent minds to recognize what the
      works of genius indicate. There was once an intellectual class that
      set our cultural direction with demonstrative works of art,
      literature, and philosophy of the highest levels ever created.
      During the many centuries of this prosperous arrangement, the mob
      of mediocrity was quiet when the wise spoke, and people avoided
      looking ridiculous by arguing against wisdom. No clever negation of
      art had yet been attempted by claiming that the pop entertainers of
      the day were creating something of high quality that was close to
      the greatest works of civilization.

      Several forces eventually united to crush the intellectual class
      and instill the mob in their place. Ignorant opinions rose to rule,
      becoming aggressively assertive and forceful to dissuade
      counterrevolution, criticism, and dissent from the ideology that
      desired to dominate all others by any means necessary.

      The new ideology of revolution lacked inherently desirable
      characteristics, so focused strategically on destroying its
      opposition with soft attacks, propaganda, and maximum cultivation
      of crazy believers willing to open new fronts on its behalf. To
      prevent critical evaluation of its merits or logical incoherence,
      it fomented smokescreens of chaos by advocating individualism and
      baseless opinions so a cultural center was no longer visible and
      could not hold sway. To liquidate any remaining opposition, it used
      social force to subjugate all to its enlightened values.

      The most foolish opinion no longer hesitated from concern over
      being wrong or mocked for its ignorance. Expressing desire for a
      belief to be true was sufficient to make it true. Nonsense was
      given the same worth as fact -- all opinions had been promoted to
      equal, whether they were correct or incorrect. Progress had
      eliminated the necessity of knowledge, freeing the masses from
      awareness of related ideas, their context, history, or superior
      alternatives.

      Fine art too was overthrown. Great works were not destroyed, but
      abandoned as periodically dusted museum pieces from a level of
      artistic development no longer attainable, and in any case
      impossible to understand in a trivial culture of flash without
      substance. Complex paintings were replaced by splotches and single
      color canvases, which some considered clever commentary on the lack
      of ability and ideas in this era, though no one considered these
      paintings inspirational or showing artistic talent. Music evolved
      from creative expression articulating timeless truths to nursery
      rhymes for adults to chant.

      Without intellectual or cultural standards, the level of public
      discourse dropped like a stone. Flattering ideology allured loyal
      supporters with promises of utopia for obedience to doctrinal
      positions and urged them to take over institutions to transform
      them into factories for this new thinking, which was really just
      lazy recycling of previous failed attempts, now with more ruthless
      marketing, willing to sacrifice many hundreds of millions for its
      viral victory.

      Schools were updated from fertile exploration of ideas to partisan
      camps promoting sacrosanct tenets children had to repeat and
      respect to earn good grades from teachers. Degrees no longer
      conferred knowledge or ability, only obedience to instruction
      without resistance.

      Just as under Communism, people knew the official ideas were a
      terrible lie, but obeyed because the authorities sought out
      dissenters to make an example of those who resisted and criticized
      doomed ideas supported by the system. This use of power steered
      students away from exploring ideas freely, effectively robbing them
      of an education, and indoctrinated most not by argument, but by
      repetitive assertion of their perfection, combined with deliberate
      misrepresentation and censorship of superior alternatives.

          An inept dictator only has to string together a few decades
          before dying of old age or revolt, so never has to actually
          solve problems if he can effectively cast blame. After
          increasingly dismal results each year, a believable scapegoat
          for systemic failures has to be identified along with a new
          plan that purports the possibility of restoring previous levels
          of achievement and success.

      After recognizing that art had been lost, music had become trivial,
      architecture was grotesque, education no longer informed, skilled
      craftsmen became rare, intellectuals had been extirpated, and
      thoughtful vision was lacking in all essential facets, the
      manipulators of public opinion needed to give a reason for this
      terrible situation, ascribe guilt, and propose their plan of action
      to restore the health of civilization.

      The marketing message was decided. The people who previously
      created civilization were the problem. They were stingy with their
      capability and did not share their fruits with envious outsiders.
      The modern goal proposed maximizing size and ignoring quality,
      needing only to extract the secrets of the successful so prosperity
      could be created for the hopeless billions who wanted for
      themselves what others had created through the unconscious nature
      of their spirit.

      After all, people were nothing more special than interchangeable
      zoological units, and it was only their secret methods and luck
      that gave them lasting success; therefore anyone using their
      methods would experience similar results. The land boundaries were
      special, not the cultivated traits of the people inside the
      boundaries. Leaders saw no use for the people who created high
      culture, bring civility anywhere they settle, seek to explore the
      cosmos, and use their abilities in autonomic transcendence. They
      were certain people were merely the creation of wise government
      teachings instructing their subjects how to vote and which talking
      points to repeat, though there was no beneficial evidence for this
      theory despite many tragic experiments.

      The rulers posited a vibrant untapped wellspring of talent and
      ability in marginal cases of misfit outsiders who were not a part
      of the community. Salvation would be found in a novel conglomerate
      of unusual sexual identification, mental illness, backwards
      cultures, and angry bitterness towards the well constituted and
      harmonious.

          The new doctrine said it would be possible to return to
          previous levels of ideas, ability, and culture by replacing the
          the living representations of that culture with less proficient
          people who were unfamiliar with the culture's works, disliked
          and disagreed with its core values, were utterly unorganized,
          uninterested, and could not maintain what others had previously
          created. This replacement would be equal, and better than the
          original.

      Though previous generations fared well without soliciting help from
      this ragtag remnant, we were told to believe our salvation and
      return to excellence depended on their secret powers that had never
      been displayed, and had been carefully waiting or hidden in reserve
      until just this day when they were most needed. Therefore, we
      should esteem this special reserve with the highest respect and not
      scrutinize what our lying eyes observe of their behavior and
      tendencies. This narrative of superhero fantasy meeting conspiracy
      was waiting until the last possible moment before fatal destruction
      to usher in heaven on earth through its undeniable revelation.

      Of course, to win this bliss required a new way of evaluating
      things, namely the rejection of everything ever noticed and
      experienced, and replacing it with its opposite. You shouldn't
      judge, except to judge against rational assessments. You should
      reject recognizable patterns as biases, and in their place should
      claim the opposite of what evidence substantiates. Lawyers advised
      clients against exposure from offending others, suggesting they
      stay silent and express no disagreements with official ideology or
      its implausible premises. These strange contortions were needed to
      make an ideal society, and accumulating swaths of cognitive
      dissonance were deemed a small price to pay for purity.

          Those who sought fortune by leaving their own land of
          uncivilized people were to be considered completely unlike
          their countrymen, as if of a different lineage that hadn't
          proven itself through centuries of failure. The new belief was
          that no traits were inherent to people and moving their essence
          inside a different land boundary at once changes their
          instincts and traits that define their cultural expression, and
          that they would suddenly stop repeating behaviors that were
          plainly displayed in the standards of their nation.

      With no intellectual class remaining to speak out against the
      obvious result of senseless actions and stop the ignorant from
      propagandizing foolishness, this revolution had no opposition and
      rolled on with the flaccid support of the majority who had been
      taught to autistically repeat slogans and obey the state's power.

      It was not that civilization was defeated by reason, but that
      intellectual and culture standards had been systematically
      liquidated and their essential positions filled with vacant heads
      and rubber stamps permitting popular doctrine to run wild over
      sensible aims.

      embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/iBNxadj-25c&color1=0x006699&color2=
      0x54abd6&start=0&hl=fr)
      ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
     
      January 31, 2015

      Working the Details

      First I noticed her long and exquisite red hair from behind, and
      then I needed to see her face. It was pale and well featured with a
      perfectly straight nose, bright eyes, adorable mouth, and high
      cheeks, all indicating she was healthy and athletic. She wore a
      fashionable tight gray ribbed dress, with which you could see that
      her youth, good eating habits, and vigorous exercise had crafted a
      luscious body promising joy and durability.

      As I scanned her to quickly surmise all this, she immediately
      noticed my curiosity and lithely came towards me to see what I'd
      do. We hadn't yet spoken and it was already clear that we were
      abandoning conventional flirting. While it's wise to not meet
      standards that accurately describe how most people fail, the real
      measure of all things is matching the essence of an organic
      principle rather than conforming to social tropes. In flirting,
      nature pulls men and women into a dance of chase to draw out
      details that ascertain the essence of one another, ideally
      revealing characteristics the other recognizes as attractive. If we
      peak too early from desire for what we wish to believe the revealed
      crumbs indicate, we'll love wildly and deeply in a few weeks of
      smoldering passion, or longer if desperately entranced by chimera,
      and soon enough the bottom falls out one day when desire's hunger
      is temporarily sated and in a moment of clarity the governing will
      surveys the state of the whole and discovers it has pursued an
      illusion lacking the substance the sensitive hippie dreamer
      character of spirit imagined would be found.

          With nothing exchanged except our considered gaze, she cuddled
          next to me like a kitten, turned her eyes affectionately
          towards mine, and spoke with a voice like nectar, the perfect
          model of feminine allure. Who would not want to enjoy this
          bliss for the next twenty years?

      It was then that I realized her genius was paying attention to
      important details and doing the grueling preliminary work so she
      could later present her cultivated results. From the way she
      exhibited her face in its best light and had taken care to dress a
      body that she had cultivated with smart eating and devoted
      exercise, she was displaying her well constituted essence nurtured
      to its finest condition.

      Where some women work from a mindset of negativity that tries to
      hide flaws with makeup, push-up bras, and shapewear, she instead
      accentuated and developed her gifts, removing flaws and
      deficiencies by demonstrating her achievement of fitness rather
      than its cheap surface imitation.

      Her apartment was clean and thoughtfully arranged, neither messy
      nor hiding junk away in an effort to make a good false impression.
      This simplicity was brilliant in its attainment of excellence. She
      was utterly non-deceptive, for at any moment she could merely
      present herself as she was and be rated well, for her essential
      character insisted on achieving the necessary with whatever she
      encountered, never seeking lazy escapes or apparatus to distract or
      conceal inadequacies.

      She enhanced her natural beauty by crafting herself to charm and
      entice bountifully, fueling raging fires that would burn hard at
      immense lengths for great expanse. Others could learn from this
      approach and its superior results, but were caught up in presenting
      a fake character in place of themselves.

      embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/C5U2bVkRaDs&color1=0x006699&color2=
      0x54abd6&start=0&hl=fr)
      ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
     
      January 24, 2015

      The Crowd is the Weakest Link

      a well parked sleeper cell can fake average ability to avoid being
      eliminated by the mediocre who are envious of their superiors The
      creative class saw opportunity in their belief that others had too
      much free time, so copied a show from abroad to take up that time
      and steer people away from ambitious choices. Such artists!

      Every episode was a primer in basic game theory. Like most modern
      social schemes forcing people together by unnatural random
      groupings or deliberate creation of dystopia to increase
      opportunity for exploitation, control, and helplessness, there is
      supposed to be nominal cooperation, but in practice everyone is
      primarily out for themselves and hides that motivation unless
      drunk, at which time they will proudly tell of their liberating
      world philosophy.

      After each round of trivia, the team votes one member off. Inept
      players who failed to answer questions correctly to earn towards a
      growing jackpot are justly eliminated. But if a player demonstrates
      ability, they are also voted off because they are correctly seen as
      a threat to win the jackpot.

      When low ability players are voted off, their mistakes are
      mentioned as the reason for their elimination. Superior players are
      treated differently by being voted off with a justification of
      feelings that they aren't trying hard enough or don't contribute to
      team spirit, even if they made no mistakes. This clever appeal to
      sacrosanct emotions reminds that a key purpose of socializing is to
      vocalize tropes that sidestep evaluation and truth, camouflaging an
      aggressive attack by trying to make it awkward for others to
      express skepticism and doubt about a particular statement and
      demanding sensibility and reason as standards in place of claimed
      feelings.

      Just as the average have no use for the inferior, neither can the
      average tolerate their superiors, so when the average are given the
      power, they will liquidate their superiors and inferiors, leaving
      the mediocre to dwell safely amongst their own, neither oppressed
      by the burden of supporting inferiors nor eclipsed by their
      betters.

      When being evaluated, we too can fake average abilities until there
      is opportunity to do away with the rascals who undermine fragile
      cultivation of excellence and sacrifice the best for their personal
      relative advantage.

      embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/RfXX6xAycqU&color1=0x006699&color2=
      0x54abd6&start=0&hl=fr)
      ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
     
      January 13, 2015

      While the Iron is Hot

      When what you most fervently desire and are prepared to change your
      life for depends on another's agreeable assent, often their timing
      is not decisive enough to win that future.

      You make your pitch and state your will, by no means a stranger
      suspected of vacillations, but your offer is gently rebuffed or
      passively deferred to a time that will not arrive.

                        Tell your new boy where I came

      Months later, you've made peace with that dream dying, or have
      found another alternative, often a better one, as it was the
      direction that mattered, not the details. The old iron is cold, and
      when the other returns and now seeks the warmth of your previous
      offer, you are no longer able to accede or even find its notion
      desirable, as they could not move with you when the moment was
      perfect. Now there is not even a spark, and no aspect of the dream
      any longer sustains.

      We sense moments of opportunity for long passion and our spirit
      burns to stretch and amplify them, recognizing what they can be.
      While others are free to decline this journey, their late return
      and accord after suffering the lonely shivering and doubt of a
      winter's prolonged cold rain are not the embers of passion to which
      we will respond, and we necessarily refuse to pursue what was lost
      to hesitation.

      We go at the instant everything is right and needs to move forward,
      ardently kindling a lasting fire that keeps us hot and astir.

      embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/Mt8-gO9CcXw&color1=0x006699&color2=
      0x54abd6&start=0&hl=fr)
      ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
     
      January 11, 2015

      Enemy Regimes

      They say the ideas of our enemies cannot be understood because they
      are fools or insane. The upside is that that fools and the insane
      should be easy to defeat.

      We are given a summary of their ideology that succinctly calls it
      wrong, backwards and purposeless, without elucidating details for
      those who do not already agree with this dismissal of its merits.
      If the claim is true, those who hold that ideology will soon be a
      race between self-destruction and defeat by those they disturb.

      With this discourse we are told of terrible fatal handicaps, and
      yet these crazed cripples display endurance far beyond what can be
      expected from the titles assigned to them.

      Are we wrong about the viability of military tactics and nation
      planning ability of mentally ill fools with primitive ideas? Or do
      failed nations endure insular poverty far longer than expected,
      from expectation of hardship, minimal demands, and vigorously
      policing truths that cannot be spoken of the regime?
      ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
     
      January 10, 2015

      Brake Shoes

      The sun is warm. There's no particular urge to do anything.

      Filth and disorganization are the norm, entangling every effort,
      and this bothers almost no one.

         Filth and disorganization are the norm, so everyone learns to
                   tolerate it and its underlying psychology

      A mix of failed cultures and people establish the level of the
      nation, leaving the underlying qualities of the populace who form
      the nation naked in the transparent result of their best efforts.

      Mopeds and scooters exemplify core values of cutting off others
      before they cut you off, the crab bucket principle expanded into
      miserable traffic conditions so everyone's time is consumed by
      individualism.

      Lines are inefficient and service is slow, constantly interrupted
      by people trying to cut ahead and cheat the system.

      The lawless zone covers a large swath. The jungles are ungoverned
      and transit between cities at night is subject to vibrantly
      entrepreneurial robbery and kidnapping industries.

          Un conservador es alguien que esta' de trave's de la historia,
          gritando Pare, en un momento en que nadie se inclina a hacerlo,
          o tener mucha paciencia con aquellos que lo inste a ello.
          [Guillermo F. Buckley, hijo]

      Corruption is commonplace and bribes are used pragmatically as a
      way of getting things done in an unsound system.

      The organized and active quickly become wealthy from instincts that
      are noticeably different from the rest. They strive to keep their
      lineage unbroken. They buy out of society through expensive
      memberships in private clubs that are cities within cities:
      beautiful, accommodating, secure from crime, functional, and with a
      community composed of other organized, active people.

       Endless trash to haul around, yet moving doesn't change the force
                              behind its creation

      Water is undrinkable. Other infrastructure is similarly deficient.

      Alcohol is abundant -- crime too. Long nights of drinking and
      dancing means the mornings start late, and soon oppressive
      afternoon heat is upon you. Little is accomplished, and is
      typically performed by cutting corners, concerned with fooling
      through appearance of adequacy for a purpose, though quality is
      lacking and soon the work will have to be done again.

      The mass prevents a foothold for exceptions to ascend, partly from
      jealous opposition to anyone who would break away, partly from
      ingrained instincts for short-term victories that preclude
      long-term advance.

      The hard task remains: how will you keep their impulses in check to
      limit their destructive effect?

      embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/bVFn7Hvxxos&color1=0x006699&color2=
      0x54abd6&start=188&hl=es)
      ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
     
      [2014] [2013] [2012] [2011] [2010] [2009] [2008] [2007] [2006]
                                 All contents and design by Jesus (C) 2000-2014
