The Pissy Bishop

Welcome

The Pissy Bishop is dedicated to nurturing freethought expression...

The Pissy Bishop seeks to promote thoughtfully rational, free argument and
enable those of sufficient intellectual bravery to express their outrage at the
mindlessly dogmatic stance of much of the world's religious community. We sell
only those products which capture the righteous indignation of the persecuted
freethinker.

Please select our resources button above to display suggested readings and web
links. Though by no means exhaustive, these tools offer insight into the "new
atheism."

Intellectual Resources

 Welcome to our website.

pbwebpage100707001009.gif pbwebpage100707001007.gif pbwebpage100707001005.gif
pbwebpage100707001003.gif pbwebpage100707001001.gif

Heretical Thoughts:

    The Christian Bible is incoherent, is of dubious historicity, teems with
period regional mythology or lore, exhibits evolutionary manufacturing
artifacts and lacks external, verifiable secular corroboration.  As such, it
hardly provides the foundation of a rational belief system.

Incoherence:

    One need only examine the various accounts of the resurrection of the Jesus
character -- or for that matter, the details around his alleged birth and
lineage -- to experience a deep sense of misgiving about the accuracy and
consistency of the descriptions.  As to the resurrection: who arrives at the
tomb first?  How many?  Who is present?  What happens next?  When is the
"resurrected" Jesus back in action, where and with whom?  More fundamentally,
why is there ANY variance in supposedly "inspired" recapitulations of these
"historic" events?

    With regard to the Jesus birth lineage, who has it correctly articulated --
Matthew or Luke?  For that matter, does the "holy family" go to Egypt after the
birth or no? And who has ever conducted a census in the manner described? 
Certainly not the Romans in the Levant, circa 0 CE, by other (verifiable at
that) accounts.

Know GOD?

"Know" nothing.

No GOD?

No Problem...

<NEXT>
