The Purpose of Christmas

CYBER MONDAY

This site is a response to The Purpose of Christmas by Pastor Rick Warren.

This site is part of the Rational Response Squad network of sites. Your
username/password is the same at these sites:

  • Rational Responders
  • Atheist Volunteers
  • Celebrity Atheists
  • Ask the Atheist
  • Evolution
  • Brian Sapient
  • Kirk Cameron & Ray Comfort
  • Atheist sites



 

User login

Username: * [               ]
Password: * [               ]
[Log in]

  • Request new password

This site is dedicated to reviewing Christmas from a historical and rational
perspective not the feel good Jesus reasons that Pastor Rick Warren would have
us believe.

Save this holiday season at Amazon.com

Please make your purchases by clicking any of these links and starting your 
Amazon shopping experience there.   

AA

TV

GPS

MP3s

Books

Movies

Computers

Office Items

Car Accessories 

Amazon Wireless

Amazon Kindle Fire

 Video Game Deals Page*

Samsung Galaxy Products

4 for 3 Promotion in Kitchen*

Audio and Home Theater Deals*

Consumer Electronics Deals Page*

New Video Game Downloads Releases*

Amazon Home Kitchen and Lawn Gift Guide*

Instant Video Movies Best Sellers on Amazon*

Amazon Tools - Get Up to 50 Off our Favorite Gifts**

Amazon Special Offers in Grocery and Gourmet Store* 

 ||||||

 ||||||

 

Please click these links before going to Amazon.com to make any purchases!  

 

Axial tilt is the reason for the season.

Purpose of Christmas criticism part 1

Submitted by Sapient on Mon, 12/14/2009 - 12:49

Recently I was walking down the aisles of Sam's Club and I bumped into The
Purpose of Christmas* by Pastor Rick Warren. Pastor Warren also wrote The
Purpose Driven Life*. When I picked up the book I found myself shaking my head
in disbelief at how Pastor Rick Warren wanted to portray Christmas. He talks
about how the true meaning of Christmas is about the unassuming birth of a
peasant boy mentioning  how astounding it is that the birth of Jesus causes
traffic jams on Christmas. 

One should wonder why Jesus didn't provide us with a better transportation
system.  This would've been an easy thing to provide.  We might not have
traffic jams if we had the flying car. We'd have that flying car by now if it
wasn't for Christian fundamentalists burning the most scientifically advanced
library we had in the era when the legend of Jesus was created. Have you ever
heard of the burning of the Library of Alexandria?  That "peasant baby boy"
contributed to the destruction of one of our most important sources of
knowledge.  Conceivably because the knowledge contained within it's walls posed
a threat to belief in a God.  Christians were responsible for the brutal murder
of one of histories most important librarians.

"Of the library itself, only a few words and references have survived into our
modern era: In 414 AD, so the story goes, a faction of fundamentalist
Christians, led by a shadowy character named Peter, ostensibly endorsed by
Cyril, Pope of Alexandria, dragged Hypatia through the streets by her hair,
beat her to a pulp inside their Church, and then scraped the living flesh off
her bones with broken tiles and abalone shells. Her remains were cremated;
there is no grave. Cryril was made a Saint, a status he enjoys to this day." - 
www.dailykos.com August 4, 2006

 If the topic of the Library of Alexandria interests you, I suggest Brian
Trent's book entitled Remembering Hypatia.* 

The destruction of that Library by believers of Christ is one of several events
that sent us into the dark ages. Thanks Jesus! Before I go too far off on a
rant, let me get back to the issue at hand. Responding to the specifics in The
Purpose of Christmas by Pastor Rick Warren.

 "It is no accident that you are reading this book.  God planned your birth,
and before you were even born, he knew this moment was coming.  In fact, it may
be that all your whole life up to this moment has been preparing you to receive
God's Christmas gift to you." Pastor Rick Warren, Page 8 of The Purpose of
Christmas

Pastor Rick is correct.  It's not an accident that I'm reading his book.  I
decided to purchase it because I read a few pages and realized it needed
someone to help set the record straight.  It needed someone to offer some
honest clarity to Christmas without the haze of religion clouding the topic. 

If Pastor Warren is correct that God saw this day coming then does it not also
follow that he saw the day coming in which I would decide to create a website
informing folks who didn't know better what the true meaning of Christmas is?
 God knew I would be informing people that Christmas is merely a bastardized
holiday stolen from the Pagans.  God knew that I would inform you that the
early Church objected to Christmas trees with biblical support, and that I
would inform you that the Christmas tree is a pagan symbol.  In fact, God knew
I would spend an abundance of time on this project, and that a whole fleet of
activists dedicated to setting the record straight on issues like this would be
on call to answer your objections, which you're welcome to post in response to
this.

If Pastor Rick Warren is right that the God of the Bible exists and he knows
everything about us before we are born, and we assume that the Bible is also
correct about God being all-powerful then one must wonder: Why am I here?

Was I really created by a God that would know I would not be able to believe in
him?  Was I really created by a God that knew I would lead people to deny the
holy spirit thus causing them to commit the only unforgivable sin?  Was I
really created by a loving God that knew I would make these choices based on
the most rational and reasonable logic yet do nothing to change my
circumstances?  Was I really created by a God who loved me for the purpose of
being tortured for eternity?  Is that really love?  

Surely providing more evidence of his existence would not have hurt free will,
it would've only served to protect all humanity from an eternity of torture.
 Surely an all loving God wouldn't want us to burn forever, yet he supposedly
allowed a hell to come into existence, he supposedly allowed millions of humans
to come into existence knowing they would end up in hell.  He did nothing to
stop their fate, why is that?  I contend the answer is simpler than it seems:
the God of the Bible doesn't exist. In fact he couldn't exist.  He is a logical
impossibility.

Riddle of Epicurus

Is God willing to prevent evil, but not able? 

Then he is not omnipotent.

Is he able, but not willing? 

Then he is malevolent.

Is he both able and willing? 

Then whence cometh evil? 

What Today's Americans Need to Know about Christmas

 What Today’s Americans Need to Know about Xmas

by Tom Flynn

  

Back in 1993, I wrote a book called The Trouble With Christmas. In part, I did
it to explain how the variegated cultural train wreck known as some people’s
favorite winter holiday came to be.
In the process of researching and writing the book, I learned that “O Little
Town of Bethlehem” and “The House of the Rising Sun” have the same metrical
structure; one can be sung to the other’s tune. On a more serious side, I also
learned that the modern Hallowe’en, Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year’s all
descend from the same ancient northern European holiday, sharing more elements
in common than most people suspect. The old English tradition of wassailing
reappears in American trick-or-treating, except that the costumed beggars are
younger and (usually) not drunk. And no wonder Thanksgiving and Christmas
dinner are celebrated in millions of homes using the same menu!
America’s dominant holiday season is almost upon us. That’s good news for
coroners, as it happens. Did you know that more people die from heart disease
on Christmas Day, New Year’s Day, and Canada’s Boxing Day than any other dates
on the calendar? Let’s hear it for January, which – perhaps not coincidentally
– is the biggest month each year for credit card delinquencies. January also
sees each year’s greatest month-to-month jump in the suicide rate.
Personally, I’ve been boycotting Christmas since 1984. So this marks my
twenty-fifth year “Yule Free.” I think of it as my Silver Anti-versary. To my
mind, if Jesus Christ is not your savior, Christmas is not your holiday. Nor do
I observe any of those fuzzy "halfway holidays" like the Winter Solstice.
For me, Christmas is precisely just another day. On Friday, December 25, I’ll
be behind my desk at the Center for Inquiry / Transnational in Amherst, New
York. There’ll be few interruptions; I’ll get a lot done. Though it is
sometimes difficult to find somewhere to go for lunch!
What does a modern, more-or-less secular American need to know about Christmas?
For starters, the observance is nowhere near as old as most people think it is.
In 1653, the Puritans assumed control of England; their leader, the religious
fanatic Oliver Cromwell, became the head of state. The Puritans disdained
Christmas on religious grounds, and made a totalitarian effort to eradicate
Christmas across the land. Sadly, it didn’t last. By 1661, the monarchy was
restored and Christmas roared back. Yet while under the Puritan boot, the
holiday had sustained injuries that would eventually prove fatal.
After the euphoria of the Restoration subsided, the English Christmas
celebration began to falter. In fact, the ancient feast observed since medieval
days literally died out between 1790 and 1820. The entire English-speaking
world became Yule-free. Researchers reviewing December 25^th issues of the
Times of London from the early 1800s could find no mention that anything out of
the ordinary was going on!
The holiday Christians celebrate doesn’t go back 2000 years, or even 500 years.
It is a revival – perhaps more accurately, a re-animation – that only took form
in England and the U. S. during the Victorian era.
And I mean “England and the U. S.” This brings us to the second thing modern,
cosmopolitan Americans need to know about Christmas. The celebration America
embraces it is not a universal Western holiday, not even a broadly European
holiday. Our Christmas is narrowly Anglo-American. Foreign traditions like the
German tannenbaum could enter the Yuletide canon only as they were refracted
through the preoccupations of a startlingly small number of English-speaking
Victorians.
How small? That brings us to the third thing modern Americans need to know
about their favorite holiday. Without the personal, if sometimes accidental,
contributions of just six eminent Victorians, contemporary Christmas would not
have the form it has today. Who were these people?
The first culprit was Washington Irving, who wrote a fanciful history of the
Dutch colonizers of New York City. Irving made all sorts of outrageous claims
about what the New Amsterdam Dutch used to do at Christmas time – including
their children’s supposed fascination with a legendary character named Sinter
Claes. This was satire, but later generations took it all seriously, as though,
centuries from now, archaeologists might find a trove of Daily Show episodes
and use them to reconstruct a history of the health care reform debate.
In other words, today's figure of Santa Claus did not develop out of a real
tradition. It grew out of a misunderstood satire of a tradition -- an ironic
heritage, to say the least.
Our second culprit was Charles Dickens. In his novel The Pickwick Papers,
Dickens described an “old-fashioned English Christmas” of a type that never
really existed. Dickens could never have experienced that kind of “traditional
Christmas” in his own youth, because no one in England celebrated Christmas
that way when Dickens was a youth. Instead, Dickens projected back onto an
idealized past a Christmas celebration such as was only then taking shape in
his own day. Generations of writers and artists would learn from this to
package newly-made holiday practices in false nostalgia, as though they were
venerable at their birth.
Dickens also gave us A Christmas Carol and Ebenezer Scrooge, who just became
three-dimensional this year. All told, Charles Dickens did more than any other
human to dress Christmas in Victorian garb and bring the moribund festival back
to life.
Our next culprit is England's Queen Victoria. Like other monarchs in her line,
she married a German royal. Prince Albert brought with him the Christmas tree,
already popular in Germany. But remember, nothing became part of Anglo-American
Christmas until the English or Americans made it their own. In 1848 the
Illustrated London News showed Victoria, Albert, and their family gathered
around a scrawny four-foot tree on a Buckingham Palace tabletop. The English
idolized the young Victoria, much as they later would the Lady Diana, and the
very next Christ-mas saw trees in millions of English households that had never
displayed them before. The next year, the fad jumped the Atlantic and quickly
spread nationwide.
Next is Clement C. Moore, author of "The Night Before Christmas." This 1832
poem borrowed much of its description of Santa Claus from Washington Irving,
made up the rest, and largely completed our contemporary image of Santa.
Our fifth culprit: Thomas Nast, an illustrator for the magazine Harper's
Weekly. Nast’s cross-hatched cartoons gave us much of the iconography we
associate with nineteenth century America. For example, Nast designed both the
Democratic donkey and the Republican elephant. Between 1862 and 1886 Nast gave
Santa his definitive appearance, his North Pole workshop, his big book of good
and bad children, his first telephone, and much, much more.
The sixth and last Victorian without whom Christmas wouldn’t be what it is
journalist Francis Church. On September 21, 1897, eight-year-old Virginia
O'Hanlon wrote to the New York Sun, asking whether there was a Santa Claus.
Church responded, "Yes, Virginia," and off he went, slamming together Christian
mysticism, and nineteenth-century Transcendentalism, odd Romantic touches –
some of them quite odd – all yoked to a snarling distrust of scientific
objectivity. Newspapers often quote parts of “Yes, Virginia,” while omitting
other parts. One deathless Frank Church sentence that ought to get more
attention today: “Not believe in Santa Claus! You might as well not believe in
fairies!”
With "Yes, Virginia," Frank Church crafted a masterpiece of doublespeak. But he
was only trying to make a deadline. How could he know that generations of
parents would mismanage their children's first suspicions about Santa Claus
according to the idiotic guidelines he offered?
That completes our roster of the six Victorians who brought Christmas back from
the dead. Without this tiny clutch of Britons and Americans, without their
narrowly-clustered perspectives, Christmas would not be what it is today.
So … what is it? Is Christmas Christian or pagan, sacred or secular? The fourth
thing modern Americans need to know about Christmas is that it embraces
contradictory elements, right to its core. In my book I call this the “paradox
of Christmas.”
On the one hand, almost nothing we do at Christmastime is historically unique
to Christianity. Most of the religious trappings are pre-Christian, drawn from
varied pagan sources. Of course, paganism is just another religion, or more
properly, another family of pre-Christian religions. Neither Christians nor
secular humanists who have renounced both Christianity and paganism should find
much that appeals here.
Yet even those aspects of the tradition that are clearly non-religious – or
post-religious – still pick up color from the holiday’s Christian halo. To
devout, non-Judaeo-Christian public school students, Christmas in all its
aspects acts as an unwelcome reminder of Christianity’s lopsided social
dominance. Studies reveal that children from these backgrounds feel the same
threat to their faiths and identities when they see any holiday symbols in
public spaces, religious or secular. Jesus or Santa, a flight of angels or a
flock of reindeer, a cross or a snowflake: to these children, all prove equally
emblematic of Christianity’s excessive power over our culture.
So now we turn to the Nativity. Most Americans naively assume that Christmas
has something to do with the birth of a child in a manger in Bethlehem in or
around the year zero – or was it the year one? Well, neither. And here’s the
next thing Americans need to know about their favorite holiday: the story of
the birth of Jesus is utterly without historical warrant – and it surely is not
unique to Christianity!
Ancient history shows us many redeemer man-gods, each once believed to have
come to earth under miraculous circumstances and become a savior. Recognizable
precursors of Jesus – and of conspicuous Christmas traditions – can be traced
at least as far back as the ancient Egyptians. They observed the time around
the winter solstice as a time of merriment, a time for the veneration of
evergreens, and a birthday season for gods.
The ancient Egyptians also had the legend of Horus the Younger, who is said to
have come into the world by a process closely resembling virgin birth. Like
Jesus in the gospel of Luke, Horus next appears in legend as a lad of 12. The
myths don't say another thing about young Horus until he is thirty, when he is
baptized and received into godhead. (Compare to Luke, which shows us the virgin
birth, Jesus at twelve debating the temple elders, and his baptism by John the
Baptist at age thirty.)
There were many other man-god legends. None gave Christianity more competition
than the cult of the sun demigod Mithras. Mithraism’s popularity peaked in the
third century C.E. In 274, Emperor Aurelian proclaimed the birth of Mithras an
official holiday. Its date: December 25. Believers said Mithras was born of a
virgin and passed part of his infancy in a cave, where shepherds and traveling
wise men paid him homage. Mithraists observed this event on January 6, the
Christian Epiphany. As an adult, Mithras was said to have healed the sick, made
the blind see and the lame walk, cast out devils, and raised the dead.
Mithraism powerfully influenced early Christianity. It is the reason
Christianity moved its holy day from Saturday, the Jewish shabbas, to Sun-day.
Even the notion of celebrating the birth of Jesus reflected Mithraic pressure.
Early Christians didn’tobserve birthdays; they observed the day of one’s death,
when one was imagined to enter heaven.
Enough about the pre-Christian record. What do the gospel writers say about the
birth of Jesus? And here’s the sixth thing more Americans need to know. As a
group, the four evangelists say nothing about Christ’s birth. Only Matthew and
Luke mention the Nativity, and they contradict each other on almost every
detail. The popular image of shepherds and wise men side by side? Matthew says
wise men. Luke says shepherds. Neither says both. The Star in the East? Only in
Matthew. Hark, the herald angels sing … but only in Luke. Matthew never heard
of them. But that's okay, only Matthew heard of the slaughter of the innocents.
That’s right, the indiscriminate killing of every male baby in Judea – with, of
course, one significant exception – was not important enough to merit Luke's
attention.
Of course, no Roman historian chronicles this atrocity either – not even
Flavius Josephus, who detested Herod and accused him of every crime for which
there was a shred of evidence. Had Herod slaughtered those innocents, Josephus
would have written it down.
Matthew says Joseph and Mary lived in Bethlehem and moved to Nazareth after the
flight into Egypt. Luke says Joseph and Mary lived in Nazareth all along; Luke
has Jesus born in Bethlehem only because Joseph and Mary traveled there to
enroll in the census. Yet Roman records mention no such census. In fact, Roman
history records no census ever in which each man was required to return to the
city where his ancestral line originated. That’s not how the Romans did things.
Our litany of error continues. Matthew and Luke both list Jesus's ancestors –
through Joseph – back to David. Matthew counts 28 generations between David and
Jesus. Luke … counts 41. Matthew and Luke disagree on the name of Joseph's
father. They disagree on the name of Joseph's grandfather.
In fact, they give different names for every ancestor separating Joseph from
Zerub'babel, a Jewish leader who lived around 500 years before the common era.
That's right, over the 500 year span preceding the birth of Jesus, Matthew and
Luke, whom most Christians consider divinely inspired, cannot agree on the name
of a single one of Joseph's ancestors! Apparently the gospels of Matthew and
Luke developed independently. Neither evangelist knew that the other had
guessed differently about story details -- or had made different choices about
which pagan traditions to expropriate. By the time the New Testament was
compiled, each gospel was too well known among its partisans to permit
reconciling their contradictions.
But why should either evangelist include a genealogy through Joseph if Jesus
was born of a virgin? If Jesus was born of a virgin, Joseph was not his father,
so what did it matter who Joseph’s ancestors were? Conversely, why borrow all
those stories about the virgin birth, and veneration by kings, and miracles at
age twelve, and such from sundry Hellenistic mystery cults, if the idea was to
show that Jesus was the Jewish Messiah, descended through Joseph from King
David?
The gospels of Matthew and Luke preserve, as if in amber, contradictions that
embroiled the early church. Early Christians wanted to convert as many Jews as
they could; recruiting Gentiles was not on the agenda. Only after an
embarrassing span of time after which the world still stubbornly refused to end
as predicted by prophecy did Christian missionaries begin to approach non-Jews.
For their part, Gentile converts didn’t care that Jesus was the Jewish messiah
descended from David. If they were going to take this new religion seriously,
they needed to see the kinds of elements they were accustomed to from
Hellenistic mystery religions like Mithraism.
They needed to see a hero demigod born of a virgin, worshiped by strangers in
the crib, quick to work miracles, and fated ultimately to die and rise again.
The logics of Davidic descent and virgin birth are mutually exclusive. Forced
into one narrative, they collide like a southbound freight train and an
eastbound propane truck. Yet each had its zealous proponents. Unable to
jettison either the Jewish messiah tradition or the Hellenistic virgin birth
tradition, Christianity just held its breath and charged forward carrying them
both. Amazingly, the new religion got away with it.
And that brings us to the seventh thing modern Americans need to know about
their favorite holiday. Remember that contradiction I mentioned? It goes clear
to the bone. The very idea of a savior who was born of a virgin and a
descendant of the male line of King David contradicts itself. We hold these
immiscible ideas, mortared together only by centuries of tradition, because the
Christian religion we have inherited is a synthesis of Jewish and Gentile
Christian movements that once had precious little in common.
There’s a lot more incriminating evidence on both the sacred and secular sides
of Christmas’s history. There isn’t time today to explore it all. If you’d like
to know more – perhaps to review the surprisingly rich evidence that the Santa
Claus myth is unhealthy for child development – I’d refer you to my book The
Trouble with Christmas, which brims with the embarrassing facts behind most
everything we do at holiday time. It’s a perfect holiday gift – and yes, my
publisher makes me say that. On balance, though, I’d have to say that the
holiday carries so much negative freight that contemporary Americans, Christian
and non-Christian alike, should think twice about perpetuating it.
                                     * * *
To sum up: If Christianity is true, the hodgepodge story of Christmas is
unworthy of it. If Christianity is not true, then Christmas is a mishmash of
untruths, bad guesses, illicit cultural borrowings, and subterfuge. In any
case, the holiday is far too culturally and religiously narrow to serve what is
now a global society. Those are just some of the reasons why for a
quarter-century now, I’ve done away with Christmas altogether, from the hot
buttered rum to “rum-pum-pum-pum.” Some say I go too far – that I throw away
too much that is loving and affirming and, well, fun. Some accuse me of
throwing the babe out with the bathwater. But as a secular humanist, I
discarded the babe long ago. The question is why so many Americans cling so
persistently to the bathwater.
For easy reference, here are my Top Seven Things Modern Americans Should Know
About Christmas:
1) The holiday Christians celebrate doesn’t go back 2000 years, or even 500
years. It is a revival that began only in the Victorian era.
2) Christmas as our society observes it is a narrowly Anglo-American holiday,
admitting even elements from other European lands only as they tickled the
preoccupations of a small number of Britons and Americans.
3) Without the personal, if sometimes accidental, contributions of just six
eminent Victorians, contemporary Christmas would not have the form it has
today.
4) Christmas embraces contradictory elements of pre-Christian paganism,
Christianity, and post-Christian commercialism. It's a contradiction through
and through.
5) The story of the birth of Jesus is utterly without historical warrant – and
it surely is not unique to Christianity!
6) What do the gospel writers say about the birth of Jesus? As a group,
nothing. Only Matthew and Luke even mention the Nativity. And they contradict
each other on almost every detail.
7) The very idea of a savior who was born of a virgin and a descendant of the
male line of King David contradicts itself.
(C) 2009 by Tom Flynn. Adapted from his book The Trouble with Christmas
(published 1993 by Prometheus Books, (C) Tom Flynn).

 

MUCH MUCH MORE TO COME ON THIS SITE SOON.  

THIS SITE IS A RESPONSE TO PASTOR RICK WARREN

AND "THE PURPOSE OF CHRISTMAS"

 

Syndicate content
 

Brought to you by Agnostic Atheists

