WOTM Watchdog! Keeping Ray, Todd, and Kirk honest... because they don't know
how to.

Navigation

  • News Aggregator
  • Contact Us
  • Create Content
  • Recent Posts
  • RRS WOTM Videos


This site is part of the Rational Response Squad network of sites. Your
username/password will work at these sites:

  • RationalResponders
  • Atheist Volunteers
  • Ask The Atheist
  • Christmas
  • Free Thinking Teens
  • Way of the Master

Other sites...

Celebrity Atheists
Brian Sapient
Christian Pwnage
After Faith


                                    Banner


We are an international group of concerned freethinkers who are dedicated to
exposing the hypocrisies, logical fallacies, and outright lies employed by "Way
of the Master" and its affiliated ministries.

Holiday Shopping that makes Ray Comfort cry

Thu, 2012-11-01 13:10 — Sapient


 Please make your purchases by clicking any of these links and starting your 
                     Amazon shopping experience there.   

                                      AA

                                      TV

                                      GPS

  • 
  • Read more

AronRa to debate Ray Comfort

Fri, 2012-09-14 11:57 — Sapient

Discuss the AronRa vs Ray Comfort debate here.

This should be fun

Live debate! Ray Comfort vs AronRa live on Radio Paul's Radio Radio http://
www.radio-paul.com/ Monday Sept, 17th 2012 @ 7:00pm Pacific, 9:00pm Central,

AronRa's promotion video

embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/8hoPb1ucSik?version=3&hl=en_US&rel=0)

Fairfax Public Access Cox & Verizon FiOS Channel 37, Comcast 27 in Reston VA

Be a subversive and call 703-560-TALK (8255)

  • 

Indiana Wesleyan University cheapened by Kirk Cameron

Wed, 2012-03-21 04:55 — Sapient

A friend of WOTM Watchdog has written an open letter to Indiana Wesleyan
University to oppose their decision to bestow an honor on Kirk Cameron that he
isn't worthy of. You can sign the online petition to object to this poor
decision.

Here is the open letter:

Dear Dr. Smith and Board of Directors:

Admittedly, I am not a spokesperson for Indiana Wesleyan University. In
adulthood, I have found myself drifting further and further away from the
ideals that IWU considers to be essential, and beg of you to consider my
remarks with the requisite grain of salt.

The university's recent decision to include a personality such as Kirk Cameron
in their niche hall of fame is both egregious and embarrassing. It is not
embarrassing only to me, a graduate, but should be to those in leadership
allowing for such an unmerited and cognitively untested conferring upon
Cameron.

  • Sapient's blog
  • 
  • Read more

I mean, what does Stephen Hawking REALLY know after all?

Mon, 2011-05-30 02:01 — Silly_Mommy

Kirk, Kirk, Kirk... all knowing Kirk Cameron. I wish I could say I were joking
when I present you with this. Unfortunately, nothing about Kirk Cameron is a
joke.

*pause*

On second thought, everything about Kirk IS a joke! And his latest
"acheivement" (one might call them, certainly that "one" isn't me) is taking on
renowned physicist Stephen Hawking. Kirk Cameron challanges Hawking's statement
when the latter said about Judeo-Christianity's heaven, "Fairy story for people
afraid of the dark."

  • Silly_Mommy's blog
  • 
  • Read more

Three Eminent Biologists and Kirk Cameron weigh in on Evolution

Thu, 2010-02-11 22:11 — Sapient

This picture is funny...

[onion_kirk] 

  • Sapient's blog
  • 

Ray comfort "apologizes" then thanks atheists for his fame?

Fri, 2010-01-15 16:43 — Sapient

His latest video entices Dawkins to a debate for $20,000.  The debate is
suggested after showing a strawman that Comfort created with the help of
footage featuring Ben Stein from Expelled. While Ray makes the claim that it's
atheists who made him famous, I noticed he's still paying us for the attention.
 Did you know he paid RRS an appearance fee for the Nightline debate?  He's
willing to pay Dawkins $20,000?  Will it still be atheists that made him
famous... or donations from Christians that end up in Richard Dawkins hands?
 What about the purchases and donations that led to the money that RRS was
given for destroying Ray and Kirk on Nightline? It would seem that if his logic
was correct, than we must also assume it was Christians who supported the
actions of the Rational Response Squad; if Dawkins accepts the donation/
challenge (which he shouldn't), it'll be Christians financially supporting his
activities for some time.  

We were alerted to this issues after reading the following blog from R.
Cameron:

 

  • Sapient's blog
  • 
  • Read more

Ray Comfort plagiarizes his Charles Darwin introduction...

Tue, 2009-12-15 02:37 — Sapient

Did you expect honesty from Ray Comfort?  Shame on you!  His introduction was
full of shit and had no bearing in scientific fact so it only makes sense that
he'd steal a bunch of material in order to fill up his introduction.  

See our two part debunking of Ray Comforts Origin of Species introduction here
 and here for part 2.  

Ray Comfort stole portions of work from Dr. Stan Guffey and his "A Brief
History of Charles Darwin."

 

  • Sapient's blog
  • 
  • Read more

Dawkins calls Ray Comfort an idiot

Wed, 2009-11-25 14:12 — wotmwatchdog.org

CNN has asked Richard Dawkins what he thinks about the new Ray Comfort addendum
to Origin of Species.

 

    And referring to U.S.-based evangelist Ray Comfort, who argues that the
    universe and life is the result of an intelligent creator, Dawkins said:
    "There is no refutation of Darwinian evolution in existence. If a
    refutation ever were to come about, it would come from a scientist, and not
    an idiot.

    "Hunches aren't interesting, hunches aren't valuable. What's important is
    scientific evidence. It doesn't matter what mister whatever his name is,
    Comfort ... what his opinion is. It doesn't matter what my opinion is. What
    matters is evidence. And the evidence is clear. The evidence is in favor of
    evolution." 

See the entire story along with a video, at CNN. 

 

  • wotmwatchdog.org's blog
  • 1 comment

Ray Comfort is a liar

Mon, 2009-11-23 17:26 — wotmwatchdog.org

"I am amazed at the lack of coherent logic in Ray's arguments. Lets start with
the basics, "If you have lied, then you are a liar". According to the
dictionary, a liar is, "A person who tells lies" -Random House. "Tells lies",
not "have lied". (To be fair, WordNet does define it as someone who has lied,
but not MW, AH, or others.) That seems to me to be a deliberate and ongoing
distortion of a fact that is repeated by Ray rather consistently. Therefore,
Ray is a liar because he continually lies, (about the definition of liar) not
because he has "lied".

To illustrate the idiocy of his argument, one only has to take it to the
obvious conclusion. Did you ever wet your pants? (even when you were a baby?)
Then you are a pants wetter. Ever get drunk? If so, you must be an alcoholic.
And I don't even want to consider what the process of being born makes me! The
logic just doesn't hold up. And the funny part, since he is lying to get people
to believe in G-d, then he is lying in G-d's name, and is therefore committing
blasphemy in the process." - David

Comment on this topic here. 

 

  • wotmwatchdog.org's blog
  • 

CNN's special on the Ray Comfort addition to Origin of Species

Sat, 2009-11-21 05:38 — Sapient

embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/d-ksC6WqdsA&hl=en_US&fs=1&)

Ray Comfort (like many dishonest creationists before him) claims that Darwin
and Hitler have an undeniable link.  With that level of honesty I might as well
claim that Comfort has an undeniable link to Hitler as both of them used
religion for their gain. 

Talkorigins.org has a great piece on this old tired argument that Hitler is
"undeniably" linked to Darwin.  

  • Sapient's blog
  • 
  • Read more

123456next ›last »
Syndicate content

User login

Username: * [               ]
Password: * [               ]
[Log in]

  • Request new password

Buy any item on AMAZON, and we'll use the small commission to help end theism,
dogma, violence, hatred, and other irrationality.
Xbox 360 -- PS3 -- laptop.

                                  God Who    Hitchens
                         Valeri   Wasn't     God is
                         Tarico   There      not
                                             Great
                                  Sam Harris
                         Atheist  Letter to  Socratic
                         Universe a          Debate
                                  Christian
                                  Nation
                         Jesus    Daniel     Richard
                         Puzzle   Dennett    Carrier
                         Logitech [gisburne] Bible
                         Quickcam            Geek

                                 [rrsnikkipi]
                                 [evolvefish]
