[0006279225_100]

 1. Music
 2. Subscription

Omniverse : Type 3 : Aum niverse

by Greydon Square

Omniverse : Type 3 : Aum niverse cover art
supported by

  /
   

  • Digital Album

    Includes unlimited streaming via the free Bandcamp app, plus high-quality
    download in MP3, FLAC and more.

    Buy Now  $20 USD  or more

    Send as Gift 

  • Omniverse : Type 3 : Aum niverse (3 Disc Wallet)
    Compact Disc (CD)

      □ package image
    First let me say that THESE STILL NEED TO BE PRESSED.
   
    If you buy a physical cd, please understand I will put in the order
    immediately, but the physicals still need to be pressed which will take AT
    LEAST 3 weeks. Please understand they have to get to me, I have to sign the
    requested ones, and them get them out to you within 7-14 days. So please
    assume there will be at least a 3.5 week waiting period to receive this.
    Please dont write me after 4 days talking about you haven't gotten your cds
    yet. They WILL be made and they will be shipped at the earliest time
    available.
   
    Now having said all that, if you are interested in buying a physical copy
    of the album and want me to sign it, you must send me a picture of you
    making a social media post about the album's release. Only then will I sign
    it the album :)
   
    Greydon Squaure
   
    PS Though i will try to get these pressed up asap, I CANNOT guarantee
    Christmas deliveries. If you are trying to have one delivered before xmas,
    I will try have them made and shipped to me in time, but i'm not counting
    on it.
   
    Includes unlimited streaming of Omniverse : Type 3 : Aum niverse via the
    free Bandcamp app, plus high-quality download in MP3, FLAC and more. ... 
    more
    ships out within 10 days
    edition of 100 

    Buy Now  $30 USD or more

    Send as Gift 

  • Subscription

    Subscribe now to receive all the new shows Greydon Square creates,
    including this release and 4 back-catalog releases, delivered instantly to
    you via the Bandcamp app for iOS and Android. You'll also get access to
    subscriber-only exclusives. Learn more.

    Subscribe Now  $5 USD/month or more

  • Share / Embed

 1.  Cosmic Harvest 04:31                                                 buy
                                                                          track
 2.  Omniverse 05:05                                               lyrics buy
                                                                          track
 
 3.  Broken Symmetry (feat. Tombstone da Deadman) 03:43                   buy
                                                                          track
 4.  Extropy 02:38                                                        buy
                                                                          track
 5.  Defiant 03:42                                                 lyrics buy
                                                                          track
 
 6.  Spectacle 04:05                                                      buy
                                                                          track
 7.  Syllable Theory 02:31                                         lyrics buy
                                                                          track
 
 8.  The Grand Cypher (feat. Johnny Hoax, Indefinite, MC Brooks,          buy
     Lioness Saxa, C-Gats & Eville as Grand Unified) 05:50                track
 9.  Many Worlds 03:57                                                    buy
                                                                          track
 10. Omnithoughts 05:02                                                   buy
                                                                          track
 11. 5th 03:04                                                            buy
                                                                          track
 12. 2016 Atheist Dreadnought (feat. Tombstone da Deadman, C-Gats,        buy
     Johnny Hoax, & Syqnys as Grand Unified) 04:03                        track
 13. Second World Cab Ride 02:19                                          buy
                                                                          track
 14. .8 04:14                                                             buy
                                                                          track
 15. Another Lens 04:01                                                   buy
                                                                          track
 16. Bad Plan 03:47                                                       buy
                                                                          track
 17. Frame of Reference 03:02                                             buy
                                                                          track
 18. Greyshift 02:47                                                      buy
                                                                          track
 19. Society Versus Nature 04:27                                          buy
                                                                          track
 20. Ambush Situation (feat. Blue Picaso) 02:45                           buy
                                                                          track
 21. Landscape 04:13                                                      buy
                                                                          track
 22. Beachfront 04:01                                                     buy
                                                                          track
 23. Interdimensional Council of Greys 03:14                              buy
                                                                          track
 24. Guardians of Knowledge (feat. Syqnys & Johnny Hoax) 03:55            buy
                                                                          track
 25. Dreams of the Dreamer 03:37                                          buy
                                                                          track
 26. The Master Paradox (As A Master) 03:30                               buy
                                                                          track
 27. Star Breaker 04:43                                                   buy
                                                                          track
 28. Bizzarchitecture 04:41                                               buy
                                                                          track
 29. Infinitease 02:36                                                    buy
                                                                          track
 30. Far Beyond The Bars 03:38                                            buy
                                                                          track

about

This is the full download of all three segments of Type 3 (Discs O, T, A) 30
songs

credits

released December 21, 2015

Disc 2/Main Artwork Created by Julian Faylona
Discs 1 & 3/Alternative Artwork created by Jason Deem

Executive Producer: Maurice Pratt

tags

tags: atheist rap hip-hop/rap secular music atheist atheist rap compton grand
unified gu hip hop intelligent long beach rap secular transhuman transhumanism
Long Beach

license

all rights reserved

feeds

[icon_feed] feeds for this album, this artist

about

Greydon Square image

Greydon Square Long Beach, California

placeholder

I hope you enjoy the album everyone. 3.5 years in the making.


If you really would like to support this creative endeavor, please consider
subscribing to me monthly.

$5/mo is basically a meal from you once every 30 days. Not so bad right? lol.
Anyway, thank you so much for your support and I hope to hear from you soon. 
... more

 1. reddit.com
 2. greydonsquare.net
 3. Twitter
 4. Facebook
 5. Instagram

Recommendations

discography

  • [a194170525]
    Omniverse : Type 3 : Aum niverse
    Dec 2015
  • [a267122793]
    Type II : The Mandelbrot Set
    Oct 2012
  • [a211099803]
    Type I : The Kardashev Scale
    Aug 2010
  • [a401369882]
    The Cpt Theorem
    Aug 2008
  • [a170381940]
    The Compton Effect
    Aug 2007

contact / help

Contact Greydon Square

Streaming and
Download help

Shipping and returns

Redeem code

Track Name: Omniverse
    ...Started at the foam as a quantum burst
    On a journey from the planck through the omniverse
    the shortest distance you can travel at the speed of light
    watch me take the same path as the neutrino’s flight
    ...shot forward, zooming past the top quark
    where the space-time and energy roads do not fork
    i’ve been slept on like the electron
    ...west born, home of the place they’ll leave your chest warm
    ...photonic crystals are my playthings
    rap at this scale spoken at gamma ray wavelengths
    blaze beats, on my way to H3
    unstable combustible isotopes at great heat
    fluid like a mickey mouse molecule
    breaking down all atomic rules on the follow through
    ...i traverse the alpha helix
    on the way to complex chemistry you’re bound to see it
    ..deoxyribonucleic secrets in the deep end
    As I keep the beat and sow the seeds of reason
    the only heathen that can bring you cell replication
    shoot questions dead through the barrel of investigation
    separation, 2 strands
    introduce RNA into the sequence, then you’ll get a new hand
    ...puffin cheeba with amoeba
    debating which came first, consciousness or the creature
    with tapeworms
    cannabis tea poured from Russell’s teapot
    to toast, to every person to ever win an EGOT
    pack a stadium, the size of a coliseum
    skyscrapers, high risers, tetrahedrons
    ...give me a beat and an ounce of leaf
    and i’ll show you things from the crease of the mountain peaks
    stay artful as I chop countries to state parcells
    leave the planet completely, become a space marshall
    on the red planes exploring the mars dunes,
    scrutinize asteroid debris, and small moons
    who you talkin to? i spit the cold fission
    visit every world near then leave solar system
    only one of many
    all the space in between here and there is cold and much of it is empty
    still come across a nebula or two
    a couple of parsecs and we’ve only gone a few
    the void we launch into, from orion’s arm
    Starships, galaxy class we’re flying on
    galactic following barely known in the local group
    training all alone near large voids evoking truth
    take it in, let it sober you
    as we go out to get a better seat of the overview
    an ocean of space engulfing you,
    ...with so many superclusters they’re singular in multitude
    Every single one from Leo to Pavo-Indus
    i’ve traveled it all from Columba to Ophiucus
    ...i break jaws with the great wall,
    of galaxies and filaments that would face all
    one existence of distances that you might fear
    from end to end that’s over a billion light years
    in a sea of universes it’s a bubble in,
    and this is from a human’s perch at the hubble length
    ...at scales like this I find it troubling,
    how can I describe one branch, when there are other limbs
    fleeing singularities while they’re doubling
    coming out to face a multiverse right in front of him
    ...nowhere to hide, the vast smothers him
    a Graham's number of gigaparsecs to the upper rim
    hyper realms absent temporal cause
    every unique cosmic set with different physical laws
    Plus every species capable of computation
    probably has supercomputer run simulations
    ...with a population trying to explain it
    with its own Dr. Gates, and its own language
    ...dirty windshields hinder our comprehension
    while tracking down great attractors, aiming for ascension
    from here, the multiverses look like sheets of paper
    in a library of books near the speed of lasers
    ...xeno structures that are even greater,
    built from every fundamental thing you’d see in nature
    ...at a hyper glance you wouldn’t even notice
    the beauty of the balance damn they should have sent a poet
    ...the omni, the top of the hierarchy
    .where all modes are in play, even the Aum probably
    ...cyclical birth life and death
    of whole entire cosmos where your old life’s a speck
    ...of probability, swallowed by infinity
    existing longer than all cosmological history
Track Name: Defiant
    It doesn’t matter what I don’t believe in
    if i’m not after education as a rapper then it’s open season
    from there it’s easy to fall
    often forgetting you’re fortunate, lucky to breathing at all
    this is our method to teach, it’s just a sound to them
    you know me, my consciousness always stays on the outer rim
    ....stop trying to make us threats and face your fears
    ...i train with peers,
    that often spit too complex for layman’s ear
    i miss debate sorely
    dropping knowledge on the faithers from the eight story
    but it was fake glory
    hollow victories
    over those who couldn’t follow history
    so i moved on to topple misery
    avoided flocks and swarms
    you’ll often find your conscious torn
    as you try to separate from the non-informed
    ...the industry couldn’t account for me
    where other rappers had limits i exceeded the boundaries


    (Chorus)
    Watch them knock our place
    and say it’s not our space
    but we ain't going away

    My whole camp stands unified
    we aint gonna kneel, cave, surrender, bow or move aside

    they want to break us up
    and want us back at odds
    cuz, we ain’t going away

    never this,
    they want the ground we’ve taken back and then recompense
    we’ll resist






    your purpose asunder
    while like the King Lizard I emerge from my slumber
    purged, full of wonder
    come up with theories just to test em out
    ...see it for it is than be left to doubt
    on the mic I go the extra mile
    match graffiti with the freshest style
    show these people how the west the get down
    truce or die, you decide
    truthfully you wouldn’t survive ANY set of Grand Unified
    your foolish pride’ll leave pool of rhymes
    from people who enlighten, you still trying to fool the mind
    nice try, we’re not buyin.
    You might be high but you're not flyin
    Stay in your sight lines
    Fight crime,
    Or become apart of the cycle at night time
    with like minds
    quite blind, trying to lead us all to the promised
    as we all fall to the comet





    (Chorus)


    through space and time, the responsibility to blaze a rhyme
    always falls on me because i’m Greydon Prime
    ...my punchlines aren’t even fun to people
    I start to spit and they look at me like I summoned evil
    none are equal
    So I run the track like a dean run a cathedral
    ton of weed though
    come and see yo
    ...the cosmic array has us locked in a daze
    chillin with my people in oculus space
    a negro
    ...yea this planet is a caste world
    i’m just another captain jack, searching for his black pearl
    last girl, I promise
    you want commitment, and I want sex, let’s be honest
    and kill the drama
    ...nothin but science on my mind list
    most don’t speak up and keep quiet cuz they spinless
    try to define this
    i’ll seek ideas to falsify like scientist, until i’m 96

    Chorus
Track Name: Syllable Theory
    My words are worse than a nuke, they’re searching for truth
    this is the null hypothesis versus the burden of proof that’s lurking
    GU surgeon peaking through your curtain
    all you see is serpent
    the perfect vehicle even though it can ruin purpose
    that’s for you to discover
    me? i’m out here making moves with my brothers through music
    work in the booth, rhyme form to verbal judo
    damn the solution. We only like the work that you show.
    ...just the perks when you flow
    and this is just the surface you know
    so let us submerge
    who needs a god when you even the odds with education
    No one needs Sharia involved
    ... to wreck a nation
    all you need is trepidation
    correct and face it?
    prepare for the defamation matrix that’ll leave you in awe
    on our spaceship and we’re leaving you all, no hesitations
    they’re better unheard


    (Chorus)
    Who’s underground like a mining town?
    terrorizing vowels
    affecting lives by combining sounds
    education is my rhyming style
    my theory is sound can be the light that provides the route
    Stay on point like a viking house
    for untimely bouts
    If i’m pitching heat? You striking out!
    my team is rife with the nouns
    ...tight with the style
    climbing for miles
    our timing is wild




    VERSE 2
    word stew basic permutation
    to learn who’s greatest
    i’ll show the many-faced god whole new faces
    face it this is one in the same
    the feeling you get when you run in the rain, newly escaped
    or come in chains
    luck is strange
    IQs in upper range
    that’s why you have to use sativa when you puff the strain with the sifu
    going full pupil so he can teach you
    another medium that she can reach through
    literal syllable intervals kicked with info,
    in a potential order to send you to the pinnacle
    gorgeous. Can change the color of your auras
    but secretly incurring on your borders, peacefully
    random saved hand grenades for tantrums
    I relate to answers
    while you distracted by the naked dancers
    face the cancer of man
    as they often exhaust your stamina
    aiming at your stanza command



    (Chorus)
    Who’s underground like a mining town?
    terrorizing vowels
    affecting lives by combining sounds
    education is my rhyming style
    my theory is sound can be the light that provides the route
    Stay on point like a viking house
    for untimely bouts
    If i’m pitching heat? You striking out!
    my team is rife with the nouns
    ...tight with the style
    climbing for miles
    our timing is wild

Bandcamp

  • log in
  • terms of use
  • privacy
  • copyright policy
  • status
  • switch to mobile view

 
*
