[Title]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
[Header2008_03]          View Trailer         ●  Buy DVD       [Header2008_07]

Bowling for Columbine did it to the gun culture.        The God Who Wasn't
                                                             There DVD
Super Size Me did it to fast food.

Now The God Who Wasn't There does it to religion.        "Provocative - to
                                                          put it mildly."
The movie that has been astounding audiences in          Los Angeles Times
theaters around the world is now available on a
high-quality, feature-packed DVD. Own the
taboo-shattering documentary that Newsweek says
"irreverently lays out the case that Jesus Christ          "Very good. A
never existed."                                         sincere and moving
                                                              film."
In this critically acclaimed film, you will               Richard Dawkins
discover:                                                   (in The God
                                                             Delusion)
  • The early founders of Christianity seem wholly
    unaware of the idea of a human Jesus

  • The Jesus of the Gospels bears a striking                 winner
    resemblance to other ancient heroes and the
    figureheads of pagan savior cults
                                                              winner
  • Contemporary Christians are largely ignorant
    of the origins of their religion

  • Fundamentalism is as strong today as it ever        The God Who Wasn't
    has been, with an alarming 44% of Americans          There DVD DVD BOX
    believing that Jesus will return to earth in           BACK (popup)
    their lifetimes

From exposing the hidden history of Christianity           [DVDandDolb]
to lampooning the bloody excesses of Mel Gibson's 
The Passion of the Christ (which caused Gibson to
attempt legal action against the documentary), The
God Who Wasn't There pulls no punches.

Directed by award-winning filmmaker (and former
Christian) Brian Flemming, The God Who Wasn't
There includes stimulating interviews with:

  • Sam Harris, author of The End of Faith and
    Letter to a Christian Nation

  • Robert M. Price, Jesus Seminar fellow and
    author of The Incredible Shrinking Son of Man

  • Alan Dundes, Professor of Folklore at the
    University of California at Berkeley

  • Richard Carrier, historian and author of Sense
    and Goodness Without God

  • Barbara & David P. Mikkelson, authors of the
    Urban Legends Reference Pages at snopes.com

  • And many others

Dazzling motion graphics and a driving soundtrack
propel this uncompromising film that the Los
Angeles Times calls "provocative - to put it
mildly."

Special Features

The special features on this DVD are both generous
and carefully selected. As DVD Talk puts it: "This
DVD delivers the film in a quality presentation,
with extras that quadruple the amount of content
in a positive way with no filler."

The superb commentary tracks on this DVD are not
the usual "making of" chat but instead consist of
original material that director Brian Flemming
crafted to deepen the experience of The God Who
Wasn't There. The two separate tracks are:

  • "The Atheists." This lively track features
    evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins (The
    God Delusion). Topics discussed by this
    towering atheist figure range from the horrors
    committed in the name of God to the power of   
    science to combat "religion and all other
    forms of superstition." Relevant audio from
    other interviewees is also woven into this
    timely and candid examination of irrational
    beliefs.

  • "The Scholar." This track delves deep into the
    Jesus Myth hypothesis with pioneering scholar
    Earl Doherty (The Jesus Puzzle). If you are
    intrigued by the possibility that Jesus Christ
    did not exist at all, you will find this audio
    track fascinating. Doherty has been studying
    for decades the evidence that mainstream
    academics are only beginning to discover.
    Prepare to be astounded.

The DVD also includes more than one hour of
additional interviews on video. These illuminating
extended clips did not make it into the fast-paced
main feature, but many viewers nonetheless
highlight them as a favorite part of the DVD.
Topics include:

  • The Rapture. Soft-spoken Rapture-believer
    Scott Butcher explains why he is certain that
    everything in the Book of Revelation is about
    to come true. (However, he is unable to
    explain where he got the idea that all
    airlines have a rule that at least one pilot
    in the cockpit must be a non-Christian, lest
    both pilots be Raptured at once while the
    plane is in flight.)

  • Legend. Barbara and David P. Mikkelson, the
    creators of Snopes.com, discuss the creepy
    lessons behind a certain urban legend popular
    among Christians.

  • What God wants. Philosopher Richard Carrier
    performs a thought experiment in which he
    asks, if there is a God, what does he want?
    The results are both hilarious and difficult
    to dispute.

  • Who needs God to be good? Author Sam Harris
    disputes the notion that morality has any
    relationship to dogma.

  • And many more.

We'll let DVD Talk's The God Who Wasn't There
review describe one more special feature on this
packed DVD: "There's an excellent slide show
titled 'Explore the Myth,' which looks at the
stories about Jesus and traces them throughout
time, examining their effect right up through
today's dangerous extremist conservatism, which
has left America fractured. Viewing the slide show
on DVD-ROM [any Windows or Mac computer with a DVD
drive] will open Web sites related to the
material."

And there's even more compelling material for you
to discover on your own...

The God Who Wasn't There is sure to be a valued
contribution to your DVD collection. Many buyers
report watching it again and again, showing it to
friends, and always finding something new and
fascinating with each viewing. This top-quality
DVD has no restrictive region encoding, which
means it will play flawlessly in all regions of
the world.


                   Buy the DVD

                 View the trailer





                                   not rated



                          Beyond Belief Media Company
                            7510 Sunset Blvd. #504
                             Los Angeles, CA 90046
                                    Contact
                       The God Who Wasn't There reviews
                                      * *
