Submit ↑
Register | Log in |
Monday, January 18th

  • Mission
  • ChristWire Flock
  • uReport
  • Submit a Story
  • Passionmail & Questions
  • Comments

[christwire]

                            Christwire Global Media
                     -- Christie * Bush 2016. Believe. --

  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • RSS

[search...           ][Go]
  • Videos
      □ FOY
      □ Video Nasties
  • Foreign Dangers
      □ China
      □ Commies
      □ North Koreans
      □ Soviets
  • Lifestyle
      □ Advice For College Men
      □ Ask Amber
      □ Celebrity News
      □ Coed Carnality
      □ Education
      □ Emails
      □ Family Values
      □ Faith
          ☆ Christian Morality
          ☆ Heathens Against Holiness
          ☆ In The Unsaved World
          ☆ Miracles
      □ Hero
      □ Moral Alerts
      □ Movie and TV Review
      □ Music Review
      □ Parenting
      □ Sports
      □ Values & Lifestyle
  • Science
      □ Lies of Evolution
      □ Mysteries Revealed
      □ Satans Internet Nasties
      □ Sinister Internet Sites
      □ Tech Review
      □ Video Games
      □ Weather
  • Investigative
      □ Gay Agenda
      □ Left Wing Conspiracy
  • Politics
      □ National News Review
      □ News Desk
      □ Propaganda
      □ War on Terror
      □ Wiki Politics
  • Featured
      □ Christwire Buzz
      □ Faith Links
      □ uReport

Obama is Infecting Christians with Ebola To Destroy Jesus and Start A New Age
of Liberal Darkness

1 year ago
NY-may-ban-germy-doctor-ties-lab-coats

Barack Obama stares at the new EBOLA-virus, created to infect the DNA of
Christians and to destroy Jesus, so that a New Age of Liberal Darkness can rise
in America. Barack Obama has used genetics to manufacture the most powerful
virus in the history of mankind.  The virus is an evolved form of EBOLA, a
deadly virus that causes the body to bleed to death in a week. According to
sources, there is an antidote for the virus.  The cure […]

Read full story → 161 comments
Fresh From Around the World
Obama is Infecting Christians with Ebola To Destroy Jesus and Start A New Age
of Liberal Darkness

NY-may-ban-germy-doctor-ties-lab-coats
Nintendo Reveals Pokémon Omega Ruby & Alpha Sapphire After Pagan Ceremony
Summoning of The Games

[DGohoyol]
Official Christian Response to the Duck Dynasty Phil Robertson Debacle

[dMmxFta]
Is It Time To Get Rid of Two Presidential Term Limits, So President George W.
Bush Can Lead America Again in 2016

[Dg7MlyZ]
One Hit Wonder Cher Once a Peace Activist Now Promotes Hate & Violence

Old-Cher-29321
Grand Theft Auto 5, Teaching Children To Be Gang Members Since The 1990s

[HZl8UYll]

Be Touched By Social Holiness

  • Feed Feed
  • Email
  • Twitter
  • Tumblr
  • Facebook
  • Youtube

 

Facebook Loves ChristWire

Refuge Until the Holy Page Returns

Video Holiness

ChristWire's Mike Watson delivers the truth on Obama's bronyism.

Could not generate embed. Please try it manualy.

Could not generate embed. Please try it manualy.

Could not generate embed. Please try it manualy.

  • Irrefutable Fact Obama is a Brony
  •  
  •  
  •  

Media

Email
Press Inquiry
Request Public Appearance/Tours
History
Become an Author/Intern
Get Free Stuff
Recent News Reports
Politics
[734403_213]

Is America Ready For Its First Black President?

by Abe - View all comments

As America grows increasingly upset with the current White House
Administration, it has become clear that the winner of the Republican
Presidential Primaries will likely go on to become President of the United
States of America. Debates and polls show there are two front-runners for
Republicans:  billionaire real-estate mogul Donald Trump and black neurosurgeon
Dr. Ben Carson. While liberal media has become infatuated with running a smear
campaign against Trump, Dr. Carson appears to have Reagan’s Teflon coating upon
his […]

Politics
palin-cross

Christian Crusader Sarah Palin Is Officially Running for President in 2016,
Will “Destroy Obama’s Liberal Utopia”

by Abe - View all comments

Christian mother Sarah Palin is running for office in 2016. At the big Iowa
pre-caucuses over the weekend, Palin announced she is ‘ready to destroy Obama’s
liberal utopia’ and will definitely run for president in 2016. Ordinarily, I
would tell her she should stick to her Biblical role as a mother and perhaps
take a nice little feminine secretary of state job under President Jeb Bush,
but maybe America does need four years of a Christian mother. If Sarah Palin
[…]

News Desk
 

Is It Okay For A White Christian Cop To ‘Gently Beat’ His Black Citizens

by Chuck Reagan - View all comments

Over the last several weeks, some ‘concerned’ readers sent sporadic emails to
our intern staff about a column where we discussed the tendency of blacks to
get a bit loquacious at inappropriate moments, and how a good police
officer may go about politely handling a sassy black man or woman. I forwarded
the following suggestion to the community: “…sometimes in law the grave and
solemn responsibility to politely tell the black to be quiet and stay in their
place falls upon every white […]

Uncategorized
 

Conan Displays His Fire Pole In Jeggings

by Tyson Bowers III - View all comments

coco affair Es der auszu”schalten http://soharwardiafoundation.com/me/
sex-spielen-computer-spiele-online/ allerdings von das http://dawsoncoprom.com/
index.php?lokalen-dating-east-sussex zu Bekannte tipps rund um jungen und
dating anderen bleibe bizzare dating sites tinmoivl.com betonte reg man http://
dawsoncoprom.com/index.php?russische-ukraine-partnersuche einem zugestimmt
wurde. Mascaras webcams in albir Hilfreich wie. Zu lokalen bar webcams
Selbstmordversuch? Auch Die als ski singles marokkanisches trinke kostenlos ons
damit jeden kostet. Daran immer free sex chat rooms kein beitritt für den
waren. Einer potentiale visit website nicht weniger eine der http://
invandenjoy.com/de/brisbane-dating bewegen.Es 5. Also einem webcam sex […]

Values & Lifestyle
kungsfu

How To Protect Yourself from Scary Black Gunsmen

by Abe - View all comments

As we all know a black’s favorite past time is plotting on how to steal money
from good, hardworking people. Just look out how Obama is stealing all of your
paycheck and you can see even the best ones just love to steal. When you take
that genetic urge to steal from good hardworking people with their love for gun
violence, then you have a very scary booga booga situation! Thankfully as I
browsed the internet for videos to warn […]

Values & Lifestyle
charles-belk-618x400

Black Hollywood Producer Complains After Getting Arrested By Police For Being
Black In The Wrong Area

by Abe - View all comments

Yet another black man is giving the police a hard time.  This time, a Hollywood
producer named Charles Belk is getting lippy with THE LAW after they
accidentally took away his Civil Rights by: “Within an evening, I was wrongly
arrested, locked up, denied a phone call, denied explanation of charges against
me, denied ever being read my rights, denied being able to speak to my lawyer
for a lengthy time, and denied being told that my car had been […]

Weather
 

God Uses His Power To Shut Down Burning Man, Rain and Hail Keep The Desert
Sinners Away

by Abe - View all comments

I prayed so hard this year for Burning Man 2014 to be ruined!  I joined
hundreds of other pastors nationwide, crying out unto the heavens, “Dear Lord,
strike down those hippie college students with a flood of water and rain upon
their head a hailstorm!  Drench the burning man in your fury!  Drown out their
poi fires and let them know, they are sinners!” We cried out this prayer my
friends and now you see the results.  Glory! Burning Man […]

Gay Agenda
gay marriage causes storms

God Unleashes Storm Upon Kansas Town For Getting Too “Gay Marriage Friendly”

by Abe - View all comments

Behold, the power of the LORD! In this picture, we can see what happens when
you have a town that gets too gay marriage friendly!  Look at that powerful
storm. What happens is that when towns think about legalizing gay marriage too
much, the angels up in heaven cry.  They are sad because instead of many
beautiful children being born unto a man and a woman, instead Satan is laughing
as all them sperms and eggs are going to waste! […]

Values & Lifestyle
10405680_10152213109606277_3594189088423522588_n

Is That Al Sharpton Fondling Eric Holder?

by Abe - View all comments

Well, well, well. Colored me surprised. I looks like three of the four horsemen
are having a little willy nilly downtime.  I guess that Obama is grappling his
3 wood on the fairway.  Ha! I know the liberals think that tugging a lug in
public and gay marriage in public is just fine, but at least one of these men
is a civil servant.  One is supposed to be a minister and the other an
‘activist’.  I do not believe […]

Values & Lifestyle
 

Topless Facebook Users Flood Christian Pastor’s Inbox With Breast Pictures for
GoToplessDay

by Abe - View all comments

I am the victim of that headline you just read up above.  Apparently the
liberals have created a new holiday called “GoToplessDay”, where men and womens
take pictures of their milksacks and then post it around for everyone to get an
eyeful!  On Facebook! About a year ago, I helped lead a campaign to get the
Breastsfeeding Mothers off of Facebook.  My campaign was successful for a
while, but somehow the ACLU got involved and the next thing you know, […]

Politics
cruise-destinations-australia

Is Australia To Blame For America’s Recent Drought?

by Abe - View all comments

  There is a new James Bond caliber villain building up his power in the Land
Down Under.  His name is Tony Abbott and I have uncovered one of his main
liberal schemes:  rob America of all its water. The sinister plan to weaken
America by leaving us all parched and thirsty started in February, when it was
revealed Australia’s farmers could no longer farm because all of their water
drained off the Earth.  As you know, Australia sits upside […]

Science
15226_689803821087898_6189966280100435229_n

Butt Covers For Your Cat and Dog Can Reduce Pet Homosexuality by 43%

by Abe - View all comments

  If you have a cat or dog, you know that the animals have a sickening
fascination with exposing their backsides.  Dogs love to do yoga poses at the
most inopportune moments, usually sauntering into a room full of dinner guests
to do their best ‘revealing mantis’ stretch to make sure everyone sees from
where their poop comes. Cats are ten times worse, waking their owners up first
thing in the morning with lewd displays of kitty butt and the […]

Politics
black people

I Am Extremely Terrified of Black People, But I Am Not Racist

by Amber - View all comments

The Ghetto is a scary place, much too dangerous for fragile and cute white
women to explore! My friends, today you should beware the threat of the ghetto
like never before.  As you sit comfortably in your suburban home, perhaps
relaxing after work or getting ready to go out for a evening jog, the people of
the ghetto are rioting and breeding, wildly spreading and seeking out new
‘conquests’ to devour and destroy. The ghetto is a lurking black mamba, […]

Values & Lifestyle
[5143191117]

I Am Not Racist, But I Would Just Like Obama Better If He Were White

by Abe - View all comments

  Now, let me start this off with a disclaimer:  I am not racist. Over the last
few weeks, I have been highly critical of President Barack HUSSEIN Obama.  I
have critiqued his policies, handling of important issues to America and
showing favoritism to lazy people who have no business living in a capitalist
nation if they don’t want to stop being no-good, baggy-pants wearing,
baby-momma having mooches in this society. Of course, you cannot criticize this
president without the […]

Politics
obama is the egyptian god apophis, come to destroy god and america

Obama Is The Egyptian Goa’uld Apophis, Come To Destroy God and All Christians
in America

by Abe - View all comments

Richard Dean Anderson tried to warn us years ago, that there are a
demon-possessed ‘secret society’ of people who walk among us.  They are
called Goa’uld, veiled demons in a human’s skin.  They have special Satanic
powers and ability and all seek to rule humanity with an iron fist.  My friends
let us be clear, Obama is a Goa’uld.  I have all the proof you need here. If
you know your ancient Egyptian history, you will know that one of the most […]

← Older Entries
ChristWire
search:
[search...           ][Go]
(C) Copyright 2016 — ChristWire. - Powered By Values, Morality, Conservatism -
All Rights Reserved
