  • Blog
  • About
  • PROJECTS
  • LINKS
  • CONTACT
  • BIO

cross
Troy Conrad


We Are Capable of Far More Than We Think We Are

twitter
[tumblr_sta]

Troy Conrad

Photographer, Producer, Writer, and another thing.

Tonight 10pm&hellip; These cats are tops!tiny.cc/improvjan (at Hollywood Improv
Comedy Club)

Tonight 10pm… These cats are tops!
tiny.cc/improvjan (at Hollywood Improv Comedy Club)

linkicon 1 day ago

Comments
#tbt To the London Set List set for the UK tv series on @skyatlanticuk.

#tbt To the London Set List set for the UK tv series on @skyatlanticuk.

linkicon 1 day ago

Comments

Tagged:

tbt

Dave Chappelle, Jeff Ross, and Cort McCown judging Roast Battle last night at
The Comedy Store. #letsroast #davechappelle

Dave Chappelle, Jeff Ross, and Cort McCown judging Roast Battle last night at
The Comedy Store. #letsroast #davechappelle

linkicon 2 days ago

Comments

Tagged:

letsroast

davechappelle

Steve Byrne hanging out in the secret &ldquo;Video Room&rdquo; bar at The
Comedy Store.

Steve Byrne hanging out in the secret “Video Room” bar at The Comedy Store.

linkicon 4 days ago

Comments
Sharing an @eddiepep video on @funnyordie (at San Francisco, California)

Sharing an @eddiepep video on @funnyordie (at San Francisco, California)

linkicon 6 days ago

Comments

1 note

THEY CRUSHED TONIGHT. #sfsketchfest

THEY CRUSHED TONIGHT. #sfsketchfest

linkicon 6 days ago

Comments

Tagged:

sfsketchfest

6 notes

Lots of watersports from @comedian_haiti @jeremiahstandup and @jamar_neighbors
on last night&rsquo;s epic Roast Battle at The Comedy Store. (at The World
Famous Comedy Store)

Lots of watersports from @comedian_haiti @jeremiahstandup and @jamar_neighbors
on last night’s epic Roast Battle at The Comedy Store. (at The World Famous
Comedy Store)

linkicon 1 week ago

Comments
In 1986 Tom Rhodes won a comedy competition in Florida and the prize was being
flown to Los Angeles to do a set at the Comedy Store. &ldquo;I was very green
and very nervous but Louie Anderson was there and he fawned over me professing
that he thought I was funny.&rdquo; With a successful career in the United
States, Tom moved to Holland and became one of the top comics on the
international scene. He now lives with his wife in Los Angeles. &ldquo;This is
the golden age of the Comedy Store and some of my favorite comics to watch are
Bill Burr, Marc Maron, Maz Jobrani, Joey Diaz, Joe Rogan, Ari Shaffir, Judd
Apatow, and of course the Roast Battles are always epic.&rdquo;More Tom:
tomrhodesradio.com youtube.com/kingofhaha#paidregular #hallseries #
humansofcomedy (at The World Famous Comedy Store)

In 1986 Tom Rhodes won a comedy competition in Florida and the prize was being
flown to Los Angeles to do a set at the Comedy Store.
“I was very green and very nervous but Louie Anderson was there and he fawned
over me professing that he thought I was funny.” With a successful career in
the United States, Tom moved to Holland and became one of the top comics on the
international scene. He now lives with his wife in Los Angeles. “This is the
golden age of the Comedy Store and some of my favorite comics to watch are Bill
Burr, Marc Maron, Maz Jobrani, Joey Diaz, Joe Rogan, Ari Shaffir, Judd Apatow,
and of course the Roast Battles are always epic.”
More Tom: tomrhodesradio.com youtube.com/kingofhaha
#paidregular #hallseries #humansofcomedy
(at The World Famous Comedy Store)

linkicon 1 week ago

Comments

Tagged:

humansofcomedy

hallseries

paidregular

Set List at SF Sketchfest this weekend at @cobbscomedyclub! #sfsketchfest #
sanfrancisco #setlistshow

Set List at SF Sketchfest this weekend at @cobbscomedyclub! #sfsketchfest #
sanfrancisco #setlistshow

linkicon 1 week ago

Comments

Tagged:

setlistshow

sfsketchfest

sanfrancisco

Today I received this transmission from Neo.DAY 50 IN SPACE: SKILLS AND
SANDWICHESI reached half-light speed four days ago, finally making contact with
my first inhabited dog planet. I was so excited that I jumped out of my shuttle
a couple seconds before it landed. There are so many dogs playing here, and
they are really happy. Low gravity means faster runs and higher jumps. For a
dog, this is everything.I met a nice Rottweiler named Elvis who teaches dogs
how to front flip while ice skating. No way could any of us do that back on
Earth.Every dog is respected here because we can all teach something. So far
I’ve seen dogs teach burger alchemy, stretch-ups (like push-ups while
stretching your belly), multilayered beefcake design, cloud floatation therapy,
and sleep yoga. Lots of new things happening here and they are already loving
the cardio benefits that come from bonework.I’m about to get my first planet in
shape.After talking with a lot of dogs, an interesting point of conversation
came up about humans. When you come home and set a sandwich down and then
briefly leave the room, you are saying “Here’s a delicious sandwich for you,
doggy!” in dog language. Unless you’ve specifically trained us for 6+ weeks in
sandwich resistance training (SRT), that sandwich is ours. For example, if I
eat said sandwich, and you come back into the room, you’ve lost the right to
yell or get mad. The sandwich is gone. Accept it.If you yell, it says to a
dog’s brain: “Just when I was feeling satisfied, I’m being scolded. Maybe being
satisfied is wrong.“It never occurs to us that the yelling is about the free,
tasty sandwich that used to be on the coffee table.So please, dog owners of
Earth, chill on the satisfaction-shaming.Seriously.Up and Out,Captain
NeoJanuary 9, 2016

Today I received this transmission from Neo.

DAY 50 IN SPACE: SKILLS AND SANDWICHES

I reached half-light speed four days ago, finally making contact with my first
inhabited dog planet. I was so excited that I jumped out of my shuttle a couple
seconds before it landed. There are so many dogs playing here, and they are
really happy. Low gravity means faster runs and higher jumps.

For a dog, this is everything.

I met a nice Rottweiler named Elvis who teaches dogs how to front flip while
ice skating. No way could any of us do that back on Earth.
Every dog is respected here because we can all teach something. So far I’ve
seen dogs teach burger alchemy, stretch-ups (like push-ups while stretching
your belly), multilayered beefcake design, cloud floatation therapy, and sleep
yoga. Lots of new things happening here and they are already loving the cardio
benefits that come from bonework.
I’m about to get my first planet in shape.

After talking with a lot of dogs, an interesting point of conversation came up
about humans. When you come home and set a sandwich down and then briefly leave
the room, you are saying “Here’s a delicious sandwich for you, doggy!” in dog
language. Unless you’ve specifically trained us for 6+ weeks in sandwich
resistance training (SRT), that sandwich is ours.
For example, if I eat said sandwich, and you come back into the room, you’ve
lost the right to yell or get mad. The sandwich is gone. Accept it.
If you yell, it says to a dog’s brain: “Just when I was feeling satisfied, I’m
being scolded. Maybe being satisfied is wrong.“
It never occurs to us that the yelling is about the free, tasty sandwich that
used to be on the coffee table.

So please, dog owners of Earth, chill on the satisfaction-shaming.

Seriously.

Up and Out,

Captain Neo
January 9, 2016

linkicon 2 weeks ago

Comments
Next page

(C) Troy Conrad 2009–2016

Tumblr Theme by Neverbland

 

RSS feed

Archive

[impixu][impixu]
