Principia Discordia - Welcome to our FNORD

  • Read the Principia Discordia
  • Read the Black Iron Prison
  • Read the BIP - Common Walls
  • Forums
  • IRC Channel
  • Blog
  • OMGASM Mission Feed
  • Links
  • Reading List
  • Downloads
  • Contact
  • Admin

Welcome to the Principia Discordia

This website is dedicated to bringing the Principia Discordia to the masses, in
its original, chock-full-o-pictures form! What's the Principia, you ask? Well,
it's the Magnum Opiate of Malaclypse the Younger, Wherein Is Explained
Absolutely Everything Worth Knowing About Absolutely Anything. Duh!

If you're interested in meeting and talking with other Discordians, we have
some very active forums or you can check into the IRC channel. There are also
some links to other related (and totally unrelated) sites, a recommended
reading list and a few snazzy downloads. Enjoy!

For a large resource of Discordian quotes check out the memebomb database.

Check out This Page to read material created by the Discordian society.

The Boomtime Cabal have created an excellent publication On Activism

Chasing Eris: Chaos journalist Brenton Clutterbuck has spent a year charting
the human geography of Discordia through the USA, South America, the UK and
Europe. You can see some of the work in process at chasingeris.com, or keep
updated at facebook.com/chasingeris, or follow @ChasingEris on Twitter.

Check out The Chao Te Ching, a publication by LMNO and Professor Cramulus.

And make sure to check out a recent publication The Black Iron Prison: Common
Walls pulling together the writings of an array of contributors and assmbled by
Dimo/Cuddlefish.

If you want to contribute towards the ongoing cost of keeping this site alive,
please click the below donate button.

[btn_donate] *
Random Snippet from the Discordian Society

Postergasm: Volume Butts


Mat Sadlers design site

(C)2015 All rights reversed. The lovely sacred chao image in the background is
a painting by Mat Sadler, used with permission.

