God Hates Brats

Proverbs 23: 13-14
"Withhold not correction from the child: for if thou beatest him with a rod, he
shall not die. Thou shalt beat him with a rod, and shalt deliver his soul from
hell."

Beat Your Children or Else!

America has gone soft on Morality! Fewer than 3% of American parents still beat
their children regularly, and parents are tolerating sassy back-talk and even
shameful words being spoken by children. God hates it when children wiseass
their parents, that's why he prescribes "enhanced interrogation" and other
methods of correcting a child.

Proverbs 20:30
"Blows that wound cleanse away evil; strokes make clean the innermost parts"

It is a well known fact that failure to apply Christian beatings in a timely
manner can lead to severe spoiling of a child, God commands us to beat our
children. Have you kicked a toddler today?

Let's Legislate Leviticus

If America is ever to recover from the corrupting influence of liberals like Dr
Seuss and Big Bird we must return our nation to it's original Christian roots!
We need to extend capital punishment to serious crimes like cursing of parents.

Leviticus 20:9
" For every one that curseth his father or his mother shall be surely put to
death: he hath cursed his father or his mother; his blood [shall be] upon him."

We need to amend the US Constitution to protect the god-given rights, yes even
responsibility friends, to beat our children - to death if necessary - until
they turn off the TV, take out their ear buds, and do as they are told
immediately. Good Christian children need to learn that when the parent speaks,
the child jumps. What better object lesson than a few dead classmates? Praise
Him!

New Laws Needed

We need legislation to protect parents against prosecution for the use of
"Enhanced Interrogation Techniques", you never know when your kid might refuse
to answer a question.

We also need to protect the Sanctity of Discipline by guaranteeing no parent
will be prosecuted for striking, caning, beating, or stoning their child to
death. Surely their blood shall be upon them!

God Hates America

America is suffering God's wrath as a result of our failure to harshly punish
and/or execute rebellious children. That is why He has punished us with a
plague of Republican leaders, hurricanes, TV evangelists, earthquakes, Catholic
priests, and tornadoes. We have to admit, though, the Catholic priests do
pretty well with not sparing the rod, but they might want to check their
translation.

Take Back America

Whenever you hear of another young child killed in an automobile accident, dead
of a childhood disease, or any other tragedy involving a small coffin be sure
you do your part by picketing the funeral with a group of sociopathic lawyers.

Fight Liberals

We all need to join together to stop the creeping liberal influence that has
invented fictions like children having rights. Be sure your child is not
corrupted by liberal media like the Cartoon Network and PBS. Setup channel
blockers on your TV to keep your kids off MTV, and Internet filters to keep
them away from evil influences like Disney. Help protect the Sanctity of
Discipline!

Bookmark this page:
ADD TO        ADD TO     ADD TO     ADD TO          ADD TO YAHOO    ADD TO GOOGLE
DEL.ICIO.US   DIGG       FURL       STUMBLEUPON     MYWEB

Picket Children's Funerals With Us,
or Go To Hell!

 

                                God Hates Brats

                                God Hates Brats

                           God Hates Brats Signboard

 More Good News!

  • God Hates Barbers
  • God Hates Crustaceans
  • God Hates Pork
  • God Hates Mixed Fibers
  • God Hates Vaginas

                              Virgin Mary (again)
the good news of God's hatred is brought to you by Steve's Web Hosting

[piwik]

