God Hates Crustaceans

Eat  Shellfish, Burn in Hell

Sidebar [Skip]

Satan's Clams

bloodyclams

Satan's Shrimp

canalshrimp

Satan's Crabs

cdungenesscrab

Satan's Lobster

lobster

Proceed with Caution!

Lobsters, crabs, crayfish, prawns … seafood lovers everywhere relish the
mention of such culinary delights. But there’s much more to know about these
shellfish than simply how tastily they can be served up on a plate. You need to
be aware that that tasty morsel you'd love to eat will cause you to burn in
hell for all eternity. 

Leviticus 11:9-12 says:
9 These shall ye eat of all that are in the waters: whatsoever hath fins and
scales in the waters, in the seas, and in the rivers, them shall ye eat.
10 And all that have not fins and scales in the seas, and in the rivers, of all
that move in the waters, and of any living thing which is in the waters, they
shall be an abomination unto you:
11 They shall be even an abomination unto you; ye shall not eat of their flesh,
but ye shall have their carcases in abomination.
12 Whatsoever hath no fins nor scales in the waters, that shall be an
abomination unto you.

                      Satan Lurks in Seafood Restaurants!

Satan, through his demonic ally Neptune, has placed these tempting abominations
in nearly every body of water on this planet, including both fresh and salt
waters.

In addition, as part of his evil plan to confuse and overcome the righteous, he
has also placed in various locations around the planet what appear to be
ancient fossils of Crustacean-like appearance. Some seem to be over 6,000 years
old, according to so-called Scientists.

DO NOT BE FOOLED BY SATAN!

Certain cities have become associated with some of these forbidden foods.

In the USA, the city of New Orleans was smote with hurricane Katrina because of
all the seafood restaurants that specialize in tempting the faithful with
spicy, tasty, delicious shellfish. God has rendered judgement on creole
cuisine.

If I lived in Maryland I'd be very careful about where I go to eat.

The entire state of Maine has been given over to the Red Lobster Conspiracy.

San Francisco may be completely a lost cause, as there are seafood restaurants
in almost every neighborhood.

Many thought that the great tsunami of December 26, 2004 was a natural
disaster. In fact it was God purging the shorelines of abominations such as
lobster traps and clam infestations.

Help protect America from the wrath of God, take your whole family and your
lawyers with you, and picket the funeral of a dead lobsterman today!

PRAISE HIM!

[piwik]

presented by Steve's Web Hosting       God also hates Brats, Barbers, Pork,
Vaginas, and Mixed Fibers

Bookmark this page:
ADD TO          ADD TO DIGG     ADD TO FURL     ADD TO          ADD TO YAHOO    ADD TO GOOGLE
DEL.ICIO.US                                     STUMBLEUPON     MYWEB

© 2006 Jaheezus Weapons and Heavy Munitions

[Back To Top]
