God Hates Vaginas

It Shall Be Unclean Unto Thee.

Sidebar[Skip]

God Hates Vaginas

churchsign

Unclean Vagina

sidebarImage

Unclean Tampon

God_Hates_Tampons

Unclean Menstruation

God_Hates_Menstruation

Leviticus 15 verses 19~30

God Hates Vaginas. He knows what a horrible, sinful, and unclean thing is
concealed by women in their shameful desire to spoil the purity of virgin altar
boys.

Each and every month women become unclean, and any self respecting and Bible
believing man will not sit in a chair that an unclean woman has polluted with
her Satanic cooties.

15:19 And if a woman have an issue, and  wom1 (15:19-30, 33)
her issue in her flesh be blood, she     God's law for menstruating women 
shall be put apart seven days: and       They are unclean and sinful. Anything
whosoever toucheth her shall be unclean  that they touch is unclean. Anyone who
until the even.                          touches anything that they touch is
                                         unclean. Stay completely away from
15:20 And every thing that she lieth     them. (And for God's sake, don't even
upon in her separation shall be          think about having sex with them!)
unclean: every thing also that she
sitteth upon shall be unclean.           Do not sit on a chair, or a couch that
                                         has been rendered unclean by a woman,
15:21 And whosoever toucheth her bed     or God will get really pissed off with
shall wash his clothes, and bathe        you.
himself in water, and be unclean until
the even.

15:22 And whosoever toucheth any thing   wom1 contra1 Sex with menstruating
that she sat upon shall wash his         women
clothes, and bathe himself in water,     A man who has sex with a menstruating
and be unclean until the even.           woman "shall be unclean seven days."
                                         But in Lev.20:18 God says that such a
                                         man and his menstruating partner
15:23 And if it be on her bed, or on     "shall be cut off from among their
any thing whereon she sitteth, when he   people."  God hates vaginas because
toucheth it, he shall be unclean until   they are so disgusting.
the even.
                                         God Also Hates

15:24 And if any man lie with her at     Barbers
all, and her flowers be upon him, he     Brats
shall be unclean seven days; and all     Crustaceans
the bed whereon he lieth shall be        Mixed Fibers
unclean.                                 Pork
                                         
                                         Credits
15:25 And if a woman have an issue of
her blood many days out of the time of   This website is based almost entirely
her separation, or if it run beyond the  on the Skeptic's Annotated Bible
time of her separation; all the days of  (online)
the issue of her uncleanness shall be
as the days of her separation: she       The Skeptic's Annotated Bible:
shall be unclean.                        Corrected and Explained, The
                                         Collegiate Workbook (buy)*


             Bookmark this page:
             ADD TO            ADD TO DIGG       ADD TO FURL
             DEL.ICIO.US
             ADD TO            ADD TO YAHOO      ADD TO GOOGLE
             STUMBLEUPON       MYWEB



                                  Also Visit

                           Visit Super Jeebus today!

The good news of God's total revulsion with female private parts is brought to
you by Steve's Web Hosting

[Back To Top]

[piwik]

