bg image(deathtile0.jpg)

Site Contents                                       Jack Chick Tract Club link
(Most viewed)                                                     

Chick Tract Page                                          Welcome to the
Chick Documentary
Chick News                                       Museum's Late Breaking News Stand
Chick Radio Show
Comics (full color)                                          Halloween
Memories /Comments
- - - - - - - - -          Here's the latest news on Chick tracts, updates to this site, and misc. news!
Below Listed
Alphabetically                (View also Chick memories 14 section for updated emails & Facebook for
- - - - - - - - - Alberto                                   feedback.)
Rivera Alberto's death 
Anti-Chick letter         If you have news of interest to Chick collectors and/or fans, E-mail our 
Anti-Chick Lines          curator Be aware that all emails are subject to public posting in our memories
Anti-Vatican tracts       section unless you state otherwise in your note.
Battle Cry summary Battle
Cry Index Blog (Religious                                   Chick Award
News) Bob's Bank Account 
Book on Chick Books &                                  Celebrate Tract #250!
Tapes Burning Questions 
Catholic Corner Canada    Our Chickstarter campaign to reprint one of Chick's rarest promos to celebrate
vs. Chick Chick's Bio     his 250th tract story was a big success. Thanks to all who helped to make it
Chick's Open Letters      possible. We invite you to get the word out by sending the press release about
Chick's Mystery Pix Chick Chick's milestone achievement to bloggers or news agencies that cover topics
Tract Club Chick Tract    like comics or religion. If you were one of those who wrote us about being
Day Collecting Tracts     dissapointed that you missed the campaign, we have provided the same special
Copy-Cat tracts Comic     reprints of the long lost tracts here for the same affordable contribution.
books (color) Contact us 
Contest Stories Dann, the             What's Your Score?Where's Your Name?Where's Your Name?
Tract Man Definitions 
Denouncers Disclaimer                                             
Documentary on Chick 
E-mail us facebook                                      Chick Reaches 250!
Fangs A Lot Fool-O-Meter 
For Sale Tracts FAQs Go   That's right! Chick's written (and drew most) of over 250 different tracts.
To Hell Home (Our Intro)  He's published even MORE titles, but we don't consider them really different
In Your Face Inquisition  tracts if they are the same story with different ethnic groups (like THE ONE
Thoughts I Used 2-b-1     WAY vs. THE TRUE PATH), or different versions of the same stories (like THE
John Todd Killer Comics   SUPERSTAR vs. THE SLUGGER) or different titles of the same tract (like JEOPARDY
Links! Memories/ Comments vs. SUPPORT YOUR LOCAL JEW vs. LOVE THE JEWISH PEOPLE). But even when using
Newsletter (free) News    this more conservative standard of counting new tracts, WHERE'S YOUR NAME is
(tract related) Page      Chick's 250th unique story! Congrats to the Chickster and check out our press
Guide Parodies Promo      release to celebrate this 250th tract occasion. (You can help by forwarding it
Tracts Quotable Quotes    to bloggers and various news agencies.) View Chick's chronological list of all
Reality Check Rebecca     250 titles.
Brown Reviews 6 Degrees
of Chick! Some-1-Goofed!   
Staff Profiles Third
Artist? Top 10 Favorites                              Talking Chick broadcast
Tracts Online Tracts w/in
Tracts Trades & 4-Sale                      Live call-in show about Chick tracts on CD!
Variations Want list 
Writers Wanted facebook   In April of 2001, a special call-in program was aired live on WCVC AM radio in
us See our facebook       Florida. The topic was Jack Chick and his infamous comic tracts, and the phone
                          lines lit up! Rev. Rich Lee was the main guest explaining the history of King
facebook us Like us on    of underground comic publishing, but also included were taped segments from
facebook                  such Chick gurus as Dr. Alberto Rivera and Dr. Rebecca Brown, as well as
                          skeptics like Dr. Walter Martin (The "Bible Answer Man") and critics like Gary
(C) 2013 Monsterwax       Metz. This 90+ minute show has recently been made available on a 2 disk CD set.
                          It's fast paced and fun, and cheap too! You can find out more and/or order
                          yours here.

                           

                                                   Chaplain Dann on Unshackled!

                          Cowboy Chaplain Dann, aka, the Human Tract Dispenser, has not only passed out
                          over a million tracts, been featured in numerous Battlecry stories, and
                          appeared in two different tracts (Rev. Wonderful and The Letter), plus two
                          different comic books (Sabotage and Unwanted), but he has also been featured on
                          the Unshackled radio series. Unshackled is the longest running radio drama
                          series still on the air, and it tells stories about how Christianity changes
                          lives. Check out the Dann Slator episodes (parts 1 & 2) on their archive page
                          for broadcast dates 11-16-14 and 11-23-14. You may recognize a lot of the story
                          if you read Chick's Crusader comic, Unwanted. Congratulations Chaplain Dann!
                          You can read more about Chaplain Dann here.

                           

                                            A Demon's Nightmare realized... at $382.77!

                          On eBay, that is. Sure, it was the oversized version --the original 1962 thirty
                          six page Rushoi version (8 x 5.5"), no less. But that's still a big chunk of
                          change! Someone is probably enjoying those extra 12 page of comics, and it only
                          cost them $382.61 extra cents to see it. But all kidding aside, congrats on the
                          big win (whoever you are.)

                           

                           

                                                          [Missionaries]

                                                       Collectors Are Fools!

                          At least, that's what the public thinks about Chick tract fans. And they have a
                          point. We DO tend to "waste" too much time and money buying tracts off eBay
                          that were originally given away for FREE. But hey, you can't take it with you!
                          And like Bernie Madoff proved, if everyone else thinks it's worth a lot-- maybe
                          it IS! (At least while the music keeps playing and there are chairs still
                          empty.)

                          The latest record breaking eBay sale was someone's August heated super hot
                          summer sale of a MISSIONARIES ARE FOOLS tract, selling for -- are you sitting
                          down? $660.00! (Yeah, we're all disappointed it didn't go for $666.00, but the
                          devil is in the details.) Get this: Someone bid $1,000.00 on it and then
                          RETRACTED the bid. (Get thee behind me, Satan!) As it was, there were 4 other
                          bidders and it still sold for a hefty hunk of change. Congrats to the winner,
                          whoever they are!

                           

                                                New "Slick" Chick Tract Club Promo

                          We bought ourselves a special present for Christmas, an official commercial/
                          promo spiel hocking membership in our Chick Tract Club. It only made sense to
                          get a televangelist type persona to do it, so here it is in all it's glory.
                          Those who haven't joined our humble club should check out all the benefits. It
                          IS -after all- the perfect Christmas gift for your friends-- or even yourself!

                                                        New Tracts On-line

                          The latest tract published by Chick is Keep the Secret. Other recent titles
                          include Holy Night, Rotten Rodney, And It Was Good!, The Greatest Insult, 
                          Sneakers (a revamp of Tiny Shoes), Bed Time, Where's Your Name? and Man of the
                          Match (a revamp of Superstar), Mary's Kids, The Throw Away Kid, Kura's Ants (a
                          black version of Charlie's Ants), Home Alone, What's Worse?, Just One More (and
                          a black version of One Way called The Only Way), It's Who You Know, War Games,
                          Your Best Life, Twin Towers, Spook, The Last Surprise, Cathy, Sorry, Let's Fly
                          Away, Mama's Girls, Who's the Real Hater?, Born Wild, Satan Comes to Salem,
                          Camel's In The Tent, Why Should I?, Global Warming and the reissue of The
                          Passover Plot, Here Comes The Judge, The Awful Truth, The Walking Dead, Mean
                          Mama, Still No Revival & That's Baphomet? (Both are revamped older titles.)
                          Also The Prophet (the full color comic book, now on-line), Also on-line is the
                          graphic novel, A Solution To The Marriage Mess. A classic retired tract has
                          turned up on line: The controversial Lisa. Also, Macho, and Wounded Children.

                           

                                                            Black Angel

                                                 New Crusaders Comic: Black Angel

                          Big News just announced in the new Battlecry newsletter: Crusaders #21 is
                          available at Chick's site.

                          It tells the true story of a brutal gang member/ drug pusher who finds a new
                          home through Jesus. You can read an online sample here.

                          This is sure to be another Fred Carter classic. Let's just hope the Black
                          Angels don't get into any turf battles with the Green Angels... (That would be
                          heavy, man!)

                                                                  

                                                    ChickComics Closed by SPLC

                          If you missed the hammer falling our our humble "hate" site, you'll want to
                          read up on all the excitment you missed.

                           

                                                 Chick Predicts Dan Wheldon Crash!

                                    Chick's Dan WheldonDan Wheldon PhotoCar 77, where are you?

                          That's right! Chick (unknowingly) foresaw the tragic death of Dan Wheldon in
                          Sunday's Oct 16, 2011 car crash, and he depicted it back in in 2005! Check out
                          the Chick tract The Wall (with art by Fred Carter). In it, a race car driver
                          has a wreck, gets a chance to repent, refuses, and then dies in "one of their
                          worst crashes" on the track (tract?). The character's name is "the Kid". He
                          looks a lot like this photo of Wheldon (above). But notice the number of his
                          race car in several panels, including the crash: It's #77--that's the same
                          exact car Wheldon drove in "one of their worst crashes" in racing history. No
                          one in the mainstream media has noticed this as of Oct 19th, but then again, we
                          all know how they try to ignore Chick. Racing fans, however, are BOUND to
                          notice, especially since so many of them are Christians, and this tract was
                          designed to be passed out at NASCAR events. Ironically, the tract is currently
                          out of print (so it will probably increase in value). Whatever happens, this is
                          one clear instance when life imitates art, (cartoon art, that is)! A special
                          thanks to Chick tract fan Kevin for calling our attention to this.

                           

                                                          Kurt Chick Pix

                                                    Curator Gets Chick-o-Fied!

                          "Did you see it?" The cameo of yours truly in Chick's recent HERE COMES THE
                          JUDGE (on page 5). Yah, "way", that hatless cop with the clueless expression is
                          the mastermindless behind Chickcomics.com! We're Unworthy! We're Unworthy!
                          We're Unworthy! I guess Ol' Captain Jack felt I could serve as a useful decoy
                          for Jesuit plots! Whatever the reason, I'm honored and flattered... Although I
                          doubt the police force is! Haw-haw-haw!

                           

                                                  Hear Chick Speak on Halloween!

                          Chick has narrated a promo spot on his website. Chick has recorded several
                          tapes for sale in the 1980s, but this is the most recent recording of his voice
                          in this century. Hear it now. It makes a compelling argument to include Chick
                          tracts on your Halloween Trick or Treat tray... not a bad idea for Chick tract
                          collectors, tool (to help spread our hobby). Even if you're a hell destined
                          secular humanist, where else can you get comic books to give away to kids for
                          just 17 cents? And if you're looking for something to write inside the empty
                          space on the outside back cover, just write "Chickcomics.com". It will help
                          pass the torch to the next generation of Chick tract fans!

                           

                                                  New "UNWANTED" Crusader Comic!

                          They're back, the Devout Dynamic Duo! (The fictional) Tim Clark and James
                          Carter meet (the very real) Chaplain Dann. Yes, "Cowboy Chaplain Dann", aka, "
                          the human tract dispenser". Dann has already made cameos in THE LETTER and
                          REVERAND WONDERFUL tracts. Dann's real life testimony is profiled in this
                          comic, and it reads like a roller coaster ride of danger and sin (at least
                          until his later life). I had already heard some of these stories directly from
                          Dann, but there were many more that completely surprised me. Another amazing
                          detail about this comic is that it tells how Dann came to Jesus after watching
                          an artist give a flip chart presentation about Heaven and Hell at a small
                          gathering. Who was that artist? The comic doesn't say, but Dann will proudly
                          tell anyone who asks: It was Jack Chick! So this is a first. Readers can
                          actually see what Jack Chick looked like (as drawn by Fred Carter) back in the
                          1970s when he first met Chaplain Dann. So the title may be "UNWANTED" but Chick
                          collectors will certainly WANT this comic. No Chick collection is complete
                          without it!

                                    embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/DuhrzCLACbo?fs=1&hl=en_US) 

                                                      Dark Dungeons Animated

                          There's a new animated version of the classic "Dark Dungeons" tract available
                          on-line at http://www.boolean-union.com/DarkDungeons/info.html Check it out for
                          some classic images of the spiritual warfare between witches and Christians. It
                          is pretty faithful to the original, although a few new lines are added with
                          good effect, including "The Lord shall provide. Now who brought the gasoline?"
                          Haw-haw!

                           

                                                   Poor Revolutionists Reissued

                          This was a surprise, as Chick phone reps considered this a "never to be
                          reprinted" title. But it's back with some subtle changes. Given the topic is
                          revolution in America by leftist activists, and that one of the few updates
                          from the 1970s version was changing the word "Communism" to "Socialism" in
                          several places, makes one wonder if Chick isn't voicing some serious
                          reservations about the current direction of the country is taking. The timing
                          is also significant. It was released just before the 4th of July weekend. Check
                          it out and see what YOU think. Or read the review of the original.

                           

                                                        Look What's Missing

                                    embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/CevhPd3-Ro8&hl=en_US&fs=1&)

                          Author David Daniels (and Chick tract co-writer) finishes his latest book Look
                          What's Missing? It deals with a topic near and dear to Chick's heart-- the
                          modified Bibles that are changed for various reasons and how the King James
                          Bible is still the best version. It's a very researched book showing how
                          political correctness and other corruptive forces have changed the Bible over
                          time, creating inconsistencies and contradictions.

                                                              No Lie

                          HELPFUL HINT: When you order the book, you can also order the new promo tract,
                          No Liars In Heaven?, which is FREE (by request) when you order any literature
                          from Chick.com. This tract is a promo for the book and includes images of David
                          Daniels addressing issues covered in his book. This is a must have tract!

                                                                  

                                                 Chick Documentary to Air on Cable

                          Our documentary on Chick is now playing on the documentary channel. It should
                          show up several times across the nation on the channel. Those who don't
                          subscribe can still order the DVD direct from us.

                                                                  

                                      embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/6Kjkz4jZKtw?fs=1&hl=en_US)

                                                  Tracts Banned In Another School

                          If only they would crack down on sex and drugs in schools as much as they did
                          religious tracts, Haw-haw!

                                                                  

                                         Chick's First (Commercial) Comic Strip UnEarthed

                          Yes, we've been looking for these for years, and finally, they've turned up.
                          It's from the 1950s newspaper strip, "Times Have Changed?" The writer was named
                          Clayton, and Jack Chick did the art... although he probably contributed writing
                          ideas as well. (The background gangs are classic Chick comic style!) See for
                          yourself here.

                           

                                                               Alone

                                                       HOT TOPICS Released!

                          Chick just released (11/08) a new book full of his' most controversial (and
                          often, most popular) tracts, including ALLAH HAD NO SON, DARK DUNGEONS, and the
                          long out of print, LISA. Plus, it features a brand new tract where the high
                          school coach seduces one of his students... of the same sex! (It's called Home
                          Alone) Chick hasn't gone mellow in his old age, not by a long shot! See Chick's
                          new book, "HOT TOPICS!"

                                                                  

                                             The Chick Documentary DVD is Now On Sale!

                          The Chick documentary is finished and making the film festivals rounds! We
                          interviewed all the major players in Chick's comic history (except Chick
                          himself, who doesn't allow interviews or photographs). It includes Fred Carter,
                          Rebecca Brown, Alberto's widow (Nury Rivera), Kent Hovind (before he went to
                          jail), Chaplain Dann, Chick assistant David Daniels, Artist Hal Robins,
                          Conspiracy expert Ivan Stang, and authors of separate books about Chick (Bob
                          Fowler of The World of Jack Chick and Dan Raeburn The Imp #2). It was directed
                          by filmmaker Kurt Kuersteiner, author of the latest book on Chick (The Art of
                          Jack T. Chick). Also included are archival recordings and videos of Alberto
                          Rivera and John Todd, two of Chick's inspirational sources. Too busy to make it
                          to one of the documentary film festivals? No problemo! You can go here to order
                          it on DVD.

                           

                                             Web Interview on the Chick Film and Book

                          KittySneezes.com just published an interview with author and film maker Kurt
                          Kuersteiner regarding the new Chick documentary and his older book on Chick.
                          It's a quirky piece, you might enjoy it. (If link fails, go here.)

                          And here's another one on Gary Dale Cearly's blog at http://
                          thoushaltnotbearfalsewitness.wordpress.com/

                           

                                                 Alberto's Wife Stars in New Video

                          Nury Rivera, widow of Alberto Rivera, stars in a new DVD called Idols Have No
                          Power. The Spanish video has English subtitles and follows a Spanish woman
                          (Rivera) as she is seduced by the power of Virgin Mary idol. She eventually
                          experiences a super-natural event that sets her straight. Nury Rivera does a
                          remarkable job in the role, ab libbing much of the dialogue as the camera runs.
                          Once the idol arrives on the scene, the story really picks up and packs an
                          emotional punch. Alberto had charisma, but Nury can really act!

                           

                                                Chick Announces 4 Free Web Tracts!

                          Chick has just released four tracts that can be emailed to friends, put on
                          face-book, or even your own webpage. The viewer can click the images and flick
                          the pages. The titles change every few months, but include tracts like THIS WAS
                          YOUR LIFE. It's a clever idea and a MUST for every Chick collector with a web
                          page. For the code and free demonstration, go here.

                           

                                            embed(http://media.chick.com/preview.swf) 

                                        College Thesis on Chick Available for Free Download

                          One of our regular readers, Phillip Forness, has made a unique contribution to
                          the museum and its members. He has made his graduate Thesis on Chick Tracts
                          available for free download. You can get a pdf file of this interesting 50 page
                          academic summary (fully illustrated) by going here: http://www.monsterwax.com/
                          ChickTractVisualCulture.pdf

                          Thanks Phillip!

                           

                                                  Record Breaking Auction Results

                          eBay continues to brake new records in fetching high prices for older oversized
                          tracts. Three tracts from the 1960s sold for a combined total over over $500.
                          The medium oversized version of This Was Your Life sold for $90. (A super
                          oversized version sold for $200 a few years back, but no more have appeared for
                          sale). A medium oversized version of A Demon's Nightmare sold for $125. An
                          oversized version of WHY NO REVIVAL (with all different art from the recent
                          version) sold for $164.50. Also, a medium oversized version of HOLY JOE sold
                          for $152. Also, the first version of Somebody Goofed sold for a whooping $309!
                          (The tract contains completely redrawn art from the current version, although
                          the story is the same. The cover is different as well.) It pays to collect
                          Chick tracts! (At least it does if you have old ones for sale.) An even more
                          recent auction sold a "lot" of 37 tracts for $397! (It included a medium
                          oversized 1969 WHO ME, 1969 CREATOR OR LIAR, and 1964 THIS WAS YOUR LIFE). A
                          medium oversized WHY NO REVIVAL (measuring 5 x 4.25 inches) broke all previous
                          prices, selling for a whopping $622 on March 30 (2008)! This tract had art
                          different from the current version (but the same as the other oversized WHY NO
                          REVIVAL?s) though it does has a drawing not found in any other versions
                          (reproduced on page 160 of THE ART OF JACK CHICK). And OPERATION SOMEBODY CARES
                          sold in March of 2009 for $500!

                           

                           

                                                     John Todd Dies ... Again

                          John Wayne Todd, Chick's infamous "Illuminati Insider" was sent to jail back in
                          1988 (he claims he was set up by former Senator Strom Thurmond, who Todd got
                          kicked off the board of Bob Jones University). Well, rumor has it that he died
                          in a South Carolina prison last November 11th. Of course, he was said to have
                          died two times prior to that, once having been thrown out of a helicopter. So
                          don't be quick to count those former Satanists out (they tend to keep coming
                          back!) Oddly enough, Todd was scheduled for parole in   2005, but for some
                          reason (Masons? Illuminati? Conspiracy?) he was denied and left to rot in jail.
                          We tried to contact him on numerous occasions but our mail was never answered.

                           

                                                     Brand New Crusaders Comic

                          The latest Crusaders is called Jesuits, warning about the dangers of the
                          Vatican's "black pope". This comes on the heals of two other recent Crusaders
                          comics, Unwanted (which told the tale of Chaplain Dann's conversion to Christ)
                          and , The Crusaders are back with a hard-hitting expose on Mormonism.. and it's
                          just in time for Mormon Mitt Romney and the Republican primaries! It's called
                          THE ENCHANTER (an expose on Mormonism). To counter those who claim the comic is
                          not accurate about Mormonism, Chick has included a special on-line reference
                          showing the source to every controversial claim made.

                                                                  

                                                 New Version of Primal Man Comic!

                          Also new from The Crusaders, a new revamped version of Primal Man! It's
                          basically the same plot, but with new evolution/ creationist arguments promoted
                          by Kent Hovind (see below, the "Dr. Dino" headlines). You'll see newer cars,
                          new scenes, and newer info. I expect it will also mention Dr. Kent Hovind in
                          the acknowledgements section at the top of the first page (or page 3, if you
                          use the tract page counting method). Now for the mad scramble to find the OLD
                          versions if you don't already have one!

                           

                                               Two (previously) UNDISCOVERED Tracts!

                          That's right, Chickcomics.com reveals a whopping two (previously) undiscovered
                          tracts, both copyrighted 1970. The first is called WHAT'S YOUR SCORE? It's a
                          "have you witnessed lately" type tract, similiar to style to WHO ME, but with a
                          Soviet KGB subplot!

                          The other previously undiscovered title is THE LOST CONTINENT, about the
                          commies taking over South America. It has an illustration of South America on
                          the cover. Both titles are extreamly rare with only one known copy found. This
                          brings the total number of undiscovered tracts announced by our site to six
                          (KISS INDIA GOODBYE, OPERATION SOMEBODY CARES, PSSSSST ISN'T IT TIME? and
                          MISSIONARIES ARE FOOLS were the first four... and that's not including the
                          negro versions of WHO ME, DEMONS NIGHTMARE, THIS WAS YOUR LIFE, or original
                          version of WHY NO REVIVAL & SOMEBODY GOOFED). Of course, the REAL credit goes
                          to our readers who send in what they've found. As always, they are our real
                          eyes and ears. Who knows what else might be out there waiting to be found!

                          You'll be pleased to know that The Chick Tract Club reprinted WHAT'S YOUR SCORE
                          to celebrate Chick's 200th original tract story. (You can it one FREE by
                          joining The Chick Tract Club.) And we're about to reprint THE LOST CONTINENT to
                          celibrate Chick's 250th original tract.

                                             Prison Chaplain In Hot Water over Tracts

                          It's just like a story out of one of Chick's tracts, on this one is true! A
                          prison chaplain is suspended for evangelizing with Chick tracts... seriously!
                          (She was supposed to endorse what she considered are false religions, to keep
                          the PC crowd and other forces of darkness happy). Read all about it!

                           

                                                     More Tracts Discontinued

                          Chick's web site has just marked more tracts as discontinued: Here are some
                          earlier ones:

                          Here He Comes!
                          It's Coming
                          The Last Generation
                          The Peace Maker
                          The Promise
                          Sin Busters
                          The Star
                          The Superstar
                          The Thief
                          What's Wrong With This?

                          Other tracts that were discontinued earlier include:

                          Kidnapped, War Zone, and 7 more of the Bible tracts (Caught, The Loser, Man in
                          Black, The Outcast, The Promise, Real Heat, and Who Cares?). If you don't have
                          'em yet, better get 'em!

                           

                                            New Wing: Six Degrees of Chick Separation!

                          Ever hear about the Kevin Bacon game, Six Degrees of Separation? That ain't
                          NOTHING! Check out our new wing devoted to the far more conspiratorial version,
                          Six Degrees of Chick Separation!

                                                                  

                                                 Chick Blog Replaced with Facebook

                          The Chick Blog was a collection of headlines related directly or indirectly to
                          Chick related topics (controversial religious issues like gay marriage,
                          evolution in schools, Israel, the Vatican, etc.) It started July 3rd, 2006, and
                          ran till Jan 2013. Then it moved to facebook. You're welcome to read either at
                          your leisure. Some of the older stories are pretty interesting.

                           

                                                "Dr. Dino" sentenced to Ten Years.

                          Kent "Dr. Dino" Hovind, the author who helped revise the classic "Big Daddy"
                          tract, plus "In The Beginning" and "It's Coming", was arrested for tax evasion.
                          Chick Publications also distributes a series of anti-evolution videos Hovind
                          produced. (He offers anyone $250,000.00 if they can "prove" evolution.) Hovind
                          is in trouble with the IRS over refusing to pay taxes on what he considers a
                          religious theme park, Dinosaur AdventureLand. Hovind also hosted a weekly radio
                          program over the internet where he discussed, among other things, why it was
                          illegal for religious organizations to be taxes. You can hear him interview
                          David Daniels about a new book Chick illustrated (Did The Catholicl Church Give
                          Us the Bible?) at this link. It plays in "real audio". As of November, 2006,
                          Hovind was found guilty and he and his wife face a combined jail time of nearly
                          500 years, but he was recently sentenced for ten years for refusing to paying
                          payrole taxes. Although that's a significant reduction, it's still overkill,
                          considering murders and rapists get less time for far worse crimes. He is also
                          supposed to pay $640,000, which forced the sale of the theme park. The
                          Pensacola News Journal claimed that "Had they cooperated with the agents, they
                          probably wouldn't be worrying about prison sentences." His wife was sentenced
                          to one year (and served it in 2009). Kent is expected to be released in August
                          2015, and is ministering to other prisoners while incarcerated. Hovind
                          continues to get messages out to be published on his blog.

                           

                                            Dr. Dino's Wife Sentenced Above Guidelines

                          This from Dr. Dino's website after the July 2nd sentencing of his wife:

                          "To the many who took time to pray for Mrs. Hovind or support her in the court
                          room, we express our deep gratitude. The sentencing guideline for her charges
                          was zero to six months in prison as a maximum, or probation as an appropriate
                          option. After the prosecution filed a memorandum asking for an upward departure
                          from the recommended sentence guidelines to be applied, the Court contacted the
                          Sentencing Commission for a clarification in this case.
                          The Sentencing Commission handed back the same decision as the Sentencing
                          Guideline Book recommended—zero to six months in prison as a maximum, or
                          probation as an appropriate option.

                          "In spite of these facts, Judge Rodgers ordered Mrs. Hovind to one year and one
                          day in Federal Prison. Judge Rodgers said her reasons for the upward departure
                          were largely based on the fact that she believed Mrs. Hovind was a “tax
                          protestor” who conspired with her husband to evade the IRS. Those who know her,
                          know that label to be untrue in every sense of the word.

                          You can read more here.

                           

                                                   Watch ALBERTO Videos On-line

                          Here's a new site with actual video of Alberto preaching and doing interviews.
                          Check it out at http://www.spirituallysmart.com/alberto.html

                           

                                               Special on our Guide to Chick Tracts!

                          We're offering a special gift package with our book on Chick tracts, The Art of
                          Jack T. Chick. It includes a free full color Crusader comic, a free issue of
                          Battle Cry, and several Chick tracts at no additonal cost (by request only).
                          The book itself has 224 pages with 580 pictures, most in color. If you would
                          like this special offer, please order here. There's free postage, no sales tax
                          (outside Florida) and proceeds help pay for this website. Our site provided the
                          foundation of the book, but most of it is all new material, including reviews
                          of every tract, the history of various conspiracies and major Chick authors,
                          and a complete tract price guide. (Signed copies are available at no extra
                          charge.) You can read feedback of it here.

                                                                  

                                                       Parody Patron Sought

                          We want to print a tract of our homage to Chick (as seen in our book and film 
                          ). This is a professional parody that is funny without being judgmental. We
                          need a "patron saint" who can help us with the printing. (You'll get 1,000
                          copies and the back cover design of all of them printed will have your name or
                          advertisement on it.) Go here for samples and details.

                                                         New Black Tracts

                          Chick has recently adapted several tracts with an all black cast. Check out the
                          new Negro version of Wassup?(negro Hi There), Your Big Date (negro woman's
                          version of This Was Your Life). Also, It's A Deal (losely based on The
                          Contract). Also, Somebody Goofed, renamed Oops! Also, see the more recent Set
                          Free! tract, renamed Free At Last! Also the Negro version of The Star, renamed
                          Fame. Also, the black version of A Love Story, called, Who Loves You? Also,
                          Best Friends is redrawn with a Negro cast as Soul Sisters. Also the black
                          version of This Was Your Life and the Somebody Loves Me (renamed, Hard Times.)
                          Plus, there's a new negro version of Allah Had No Son, called Who Is Allah?

                           

                                                            New Reviews

                          For pseudo-serious (but mostly humorous) blow by blow tract "dissections",
                          check out the latest reviews of Mama's Girls, Camel In The Tent, the Fatal
                          Decision, Global Warming, Here Comes The Judge, The Awful Truth, There Go The
                          Dinosaurs, Who Is He?, Love That Money, Things To Come, Going Down, Crazy Wolf,
                          all black cast tracts, Some Like It Hot, The Bully, Evil Eyes, It's All About
                          You!, Papa?, Home Alone, Somebody Angry?, First Bite , Moving On Up, Unforgiven
                          .

                                                                  

                           

                                                    More Misc. (but older) News

                                                                  


━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                            Content copyright 2013
                                ChickComics.com


