[social-twi]     [social-fb]

 [Subscribe]

Logo

  • Home
  • LarkBooks
  • LarkStore
  • Nursery Fast Pass
  • Bald Men
  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Contact
  • Advertise

  • LarkPremium
  • Submissions
  • Horoscopes
  • Prayer Request/Gossip Line
  • About Us
  • God’s Word for You Today

[larkstore-]


recent from Tweeting pastor destroys wise reputation
Tweeting pastor destroys wise reputation

SARASOTA, Fla. —John Royal, pastor of Peace Christian Fellowship, the largest
church in the city, was long considered a pillar in the community.

Then he opened a Twitter account.

Now Royal’s random and frequent tweets are dimming his once-sterling
reputation.

“We loved the idea of Pastor Royal tweeting nuggets of wisdom throughout the
day,” says Carissa Black, one of several young staff members who urged Royal to
embrace the new medium. “But he’s run away with it. It’s having the opposite
effect we hoped for.”

Royal’s first tweets were conservative — scripture verses, previews of upcoming
sermons and reminders about church events. Then, over time, his pace picked up
considerably and his subject matter broadened.

Read More
Skyboxes, club cards woo ‘church customers’
Iowa man feels called to Saudi Arabia
Man over-familiar with Holy Spirit
Pastor’s wife has surgery to ensure permanent smile
Southern Baptists launch pre-emptive strikes against Assemblies of God
recent from

Churches offer ‘fetal Communion’

Churches offer ‘fetal Communion’

NEWHALL, Calif. — When Tim and Eleanor Green heard that their church was
offering a special Communion experience for expecting parents, their interest
was piqued. A month later they gathered in a room with twelve other pregnant
women and their husbands to take what the church dubs “pre-birth” or “fetal”
Communion.

“It was one of the most incredible spiritual experiences of my life,” says Tim
as Eleanor nods in agreement. “There was such a rush realizing we were taking
Communion as a family for the first time.”

Read More
 
recent from

‘Turn Your Gaze to Heaven’ conference lands church in hot water

‘Turn Your Gaze to Heaven’ conference lands church in hot water

ARCADIA — Cornerstone Community Church got a call from the city of Arcadia last
week. The message: Shut down your conference or the city will sue.

“It was completely out of the blue, but they meant it,” says pastor Rob Jones.
“The woman on the phone was almost choking with anger.”

It became clear that someone at the city had heard a radio spot for the
church’s upcoming “Turn Your Gaze to Heaven” conference and thought it was a
homosexual rehabilitation event.

Read More
 
Woman convinced her dog knows Jesus Woman convinced her dog knows Jesus
Pastor welcomes birth of second sermon illustration Pastor welcomes birth of
second sermon illustration
‘Grandma not in heaven’ boy reports ‘Grandma not in heaven’ boy reports
Christian couple maintains abstinence through first two years of marriage 
Christian couple maintains abstinence through first two...
Posted by joelkilpatrick on Feb 10, 2013 in 2011, Featured Story Narrow, Photo,
Square photo | Comments Off

Exiting pastor saddles church with odd worship leader

Exiting pastor saddles church with odd worship leader

FRESNO — After repeated conflicts with his church board about the direction of
Family Life Center, pastor Dave Chandler decided to leave the church. But on
his way out he used a little-known clause in the bylaws to singlehandedly hire
a new worship leader: Bill MacNerny who specializes in “alien folk music” and
“tunes for chickens and other intelligent beings.” MacNerny was last employed
as a street performer in Key West, Fla., and has made several albums of himself
playing the ukelele and making barnyard sounds.

“We’re in a true bind,” says board member Jeff Garrety. “We couldn’t believe
when this bozo showed up to lead worship.”

Read More
Posted by joelkilpatrick on Sep 16, 2011 in 2003-2008, Featured Story Narrow,
Photo, Square photo | Comments Off

‘Perfect’ pastor found to be dead

‘Perfect’ pastor found to be dead

BOZEMAN, Mont. — An associate pastor and church sound man pulled a
Weekend-At-Bernie’s-style scheme, keeping their church’s senior pastor in the
pulpit six weeks after his unexpected death.

“I thought he was going through a personal renewal which mellowed him,” says
one member after learning that pastor Lenny Dillon had been dead since July.

Read More
[featured-f]

[featured-l]
[GTF-new-fr]

Search LarkNews

[                    ] [Search]
Home   |   LarkBooks   |   LarkStore   |   Nursery Fast Pass   |   Bald Men   |
  Facebook   |   Twitter   |   Contact   |   Advertise
LarkPremium   |   Submissions   |   Horoscope   |   Prayer Request/Gossip Line
  |   God's Word for You Today     (C) 2011 LarkNews
 
