  • Home
  • About
  • [                    ][Search]

The Illegiterati

We have opinions.

Feeds:
    Posts
    Comments

St. Lidwina of Schiedam

July 3, 2011 by Alex

[Lidwinas_fall]

Lidwina was born in Holland in 1380, the daughter of a nobleman and a peasant
woman. At an early age she’d already  decided to join a convent and lead a holy
life, which like I keep saying on this blog, wasn’t such a terrible choice when
your options are a) spend all day praying or b) spend all day feeding some man
your parents chose for you while having and raising his children. Medieval
marriage: not a picnic.

When she was 15, Lidwina went ice skating with friends, as you do in Holland,
but fell on some rough ice and sustained a broken rib and some sort of internal
damage. Her wound became gangrenous, and over the course of years the gangrene
spread over her entire body.

Things get increasingly disgusting from there. Her entire body putrefied, but
she didn’t die. She had fevers, she vomited blood and it poured from all her
orifices. She stopped eating gradually, first only eating a bite of apple a
day, then a little bit of bread and wine each week, and eventually she was only
eating communion brought to her by the priests, some of whom were convinced she
was possessed by a demon. Her hagiographies report that parts of her skin fell
off, entire bones fell off, and parts of her intestines fell out. Instead of
getting rid of those things like normal people, her parents kept her shed body
parts in a vase, where they allegedly gave off a “sweet odor,” leading me to
wonder if the rest of medieval Holland was even more awful than we thought.

In researching this one, I found way more stories about female saints
miraculously nursing others than you would think exist, and Lidwina is one of
them. A widow who cared for her since she was bed-bound, Catherine, had a
vision of Lidwina’s breasts filling with milk. Shortly thereafter, Lidwina had
a vision of the Virgin Mary and a host of other holy women surrounding her bed,
opening their tunics and lactating into the sky. As expected, the next time
Catherine came over to change her sheets, Lidwina rubbed her breast, it filled
with milk, she fed Catherine, and religion is officially weirder than fetish
porn.

Another scrap that appears a few times in the literature is the rumor that
Lidwina was impregnated by the local priest. Specifically, the sources state
that four soldiers “abused” her with this rumor, taunting her that her body was
bloated because she’d been impregnated by the priest. This priest was the same
priest who refused her communion more than once, and once tried to give her an
unblessed wafer, but of course she had saintly superpowers of communion
detection and spit it out. Later on in her life she “saw his heart,” rightly
accused him of adultery, and of course he repented. Since the priest was kind
of a dick (what kind of priest wouldn’t give communion to a clearly devout,
clearly sick woman?), I have to wonder whether the adultery thing was really
divinely-inspired knowledge, or more first-hand knowledge that the guy was a
rapist.

Before she died at age 53, Lidwina slowly became paralyzed, though she never
got up from her bed again after the ice skating accident. When she died, the
only thing she could move were her left hand and her head, and the descriptions
of her illness have led some medical types to speculate that she may have had
Multiple Sclerosis. If so, she would be the first recorded person with the
disease.

St. Lidwina is officially the patron saint of ice skating, and unofficially the
patron saint of MS. Please keep all of your internal organs internal for her
saint day, April 14.

St. Lidwina on Wikipedia

St. Lidwina of Schiedam on the Catholic Encyclopedia

Holy Feast and Holy Fast, by Caroline Walker Bynum

The Lives of the Primitive Fathers, Martyrs, and Other Principal Saints by
Alban Butler

Posted in Obscure Saint Blogging, Religion | Tagged Catholicism, maidens,
martyrs, medieval saints, Roman Catholicism, saints | 3 Comments >>

Ark-aeology (I crack myself up)

May 6, 2010 by Alex

It’s old news by now (The Illitegerati: Not Breaking News), but a group of
filmmakers funded by evangelists found Noah’s Ark in Turkey. Again. As everyone
is reporting, these people say it’s 99.9% certain that it’s Noah’s Ark, which
sounds cool and all, and even better when you realize their reasons are as
follows:

1. That thingie is totally boat shaped

2. Really really want it to be Noah’s Ark

The other best part is the amount of effort the other crackpot biblical
archaeologists are putting into proving this Ark a fake, because how can you
not love something that uses scientific evidence then follows it up with the
following ad:

    Yes, Noah’s Ark is completely real! Now find out “what you don’t Noah”
    about the story as well as your spectacular destiny they rarely ever
    mention in church in this autographed No. 1 best-seller!

Looking into this story I found out that there’s a lot I don’t Noah (get it?)
about proving that the Old Testament is 100% real, true and definitely happened
just like they say it did. After all, the most important part of faith is using
scientifically gathered evidence to ensure that you’re absolutely right about
the minutest details of everything you believe.

I’ll go into the scientific explanations of Noah’s Ark another time–there are
plenty, and they are good— so now we can talk about one Ron Wyatt, who keeps
finding biblical stuff.

First, I should say that there are two types of biblical archaeologists. Some
are archaeologists who study the same approximate time period and place of the
Old Testament, and they turn up some pretty interesting stuff. For example, no
one thought the Hittites were real for a long time, or that Sargon I was a real
Assyrian king. But, even though people like you and me think that stuff is
pretty cool, it’s not a big fucking ship.

The other kind of biblical archaeologists grabs a Bible and uses it like a
Lonely Planet guide to the Middle East. They do not carefully comb through
records of ancient cultures written in cuneiform to discover new lineages. Oh
no. They climb mountains and find arks in the morning before taking a little
swim in the Red Sea and finding ancient chariot wheels in the afternoon. Right
where the Bible said they’d be.

Mr. Wyatt has, thus far, found not only Noah’s Ark but Sodom and Gomorrah, Mt.
Sinai, the Egyptians’ chariots in the Red Sea, and the Ark of the Covenant. For
my money, Sodom and Gomorrah is the best–mainly pictures of weird rock
formations with explanations that the fire of God was so hot it burned the
limestone into little crumbly layers, or something like that.

The important thing here, of course, is that we prove that what we believe is
100% true and therefore worthy of being believed, so we’re going to go look for
it because this book that we believe to be true says so, and we believe the
book because we found this rock that… oh. Oh my head hurts.

Enjoy, and try not to giggle with delight next time that one guy you know
brings up how they found the Ark.

Posted in Religion | Tagged ark of the covenant, Biblical archaeology, Mt.
Sinai, Noah's Ark, old testament, Ron Wyatt, Sodom and Gomorrah | 1 Comment >>

Blessed Columba of Rieti

December 2, 2009 by Alex

[saintc6q]

Technically, Columbia of Rieti is not a saint. Technically she gets the title
“Blessed,” which is one rung below sainthood on the Catholic Ladder of
Holiness. The process of beatification is simultaneously quite thorough and
totally haphazard, as best as I can tell, and anyway her technically
non-beatified status doesn’t make her any less interesting. Onward!

Columba was born Angelella Guardagnoli in 1467 to parents in Rieti, Italy who
were poor but still gave money to the church because how else are they supposed
to get those nice hats, hm? When she was baptised a dove flew into the
baptismal font, so she was nicknamed Columba. She was educated by the Dominican
nuns whose laundry she mended and made, and while still a teenager she had a
vision of Christ on a throne, surrounded by angels. When you start having
visions of Jesus there’s usually only one way for your life to go if you’re a
young lady in Renaissance Italy, and that is straight into the convent.
Unfortunately her parents had other plans (have you noticed that the parents of
these virgin, female saints ALWAYS have other plans? Was no parent ever like,
oh, okay honey, sure you can be a nun! Follow your dream!) and betrothed her to
a young man. As was done at the time, and thankfully no more, she cut off her
hair and sent it to him which was a clear signal that she had no hair and thus
meant to become a nun.

At ninteen she became a Dominican Tertiary, and sometime before that she became
anorexic. There’s a long long tradition among the more mystical parts of
Catholicism of lots of fasting, or subsisting only on the communion wafer, or
eating severely limited diets, and throwing up everything that gets forced
down. It goes along with other physical self-punishment in lots of cases.
Columba’s fasting, or anorexia, or whatever you want to call it went along with
visions in which her spirit toured the holy land, like an early Birthright
Israel for non-Jews.

Anyway, Columba was barely eating if she was eating at all, and then one day
she wanted to throw her family a feast. She did, and then disappeared, leaving
only her vestments behind in her chamber folded in the shape of the cross.
There was no way out of her chamber or the city gates, but she left somehow.

It’s after she wanders away–with no real idea where she’s going–that the weird
stuff happens. At an inn she’s mistaken for a noble girl who was seduced and
then left by a priest, Chiaretta of Naples, whose father had a pretty good
reward for her return. The innkeeper says he’s got a wife and daughters, and
then shows up with some drinking buddies and demands the reward. Columba
explains she’s not the noble runaway, and things get ugly when they try to rape
her. However, after they rip her clothes off they’re shocked to discover
lashmarks, blisters from a hair shirts, iron bands around her neck, waist and
breasts, and that she was incredibly thin. Two men run off and the innkeeper
drops to his knees and prays for forgiveness.

She ends up going to Perugia, and on the way her travelling group, all women,
keeps being beset by people who want nothing more to rape Columba, whose
holiness keeps getting her out of it: once a man who sticks his hand up her
skirt feels a “pang in his heart,” once she stops at a roadside chapel and they
can’t find her. Take home lesson:  if you don’t want to get raped, be holier!
An unspecified amount, naturally, and mind that this is of course all your
responsibility since we can’t expect men to stop raping or anything.

Once in Perugia, Columba joins another convent and keeps not eating. Due to
this whole “not eating” thing, lots of church higher-ups thought she may be in
league with Satan, and no less than Lucrezia Borgia accused her of witchcraft,
but Pope Alexander VI (also a Borgia) asked her advice once in a while.

As usual, there are conflicting reports on her death. Some sources say that
when the plague struck Perugia, she became ill in place of the townspeople,
saving them and dying herself at 34. Other sources say she starved herself to
death, and honestly, given a history of self-starvation vs. a miraculous report
of plague-gathering, I know which one I’m going to believe.

Her feast day is May 20, though maybe you shouldn’t feast so much as look
longingly at some food while thinking about getting closer to God.

Holy Anorexia on Google Books

Posted in Obscure Saint Blogging, Religion | Tagged anorexia mirabilis,
Catholicism, holy anorexia, maidens, renaissance saints, saints | 1 Comment >>

Judaism is Tasty

September 17, 2009 by Alex

With the Jewish holiday season right around the corner–the fun begins tomorrow
night with Rosh Hashanah– for a while I’ve been meaning to put together a list
of my favorite Jewish holidays, because they’re fun, kind of exotic (unless
you’re actually Jewish or something), don’t require getting up early, and most
importantly, they are hella tasty. L’chaim!

1. Passover

The Jews followed Joseph into Egypt, and it was cool for a while until the
Pharaoh decided to enslave them. But then Moses came along and told the Pharaoh
(probably Raamses II) to Let His People Go, God sent a bunch of plagues, and
the Jews invented Matzoh right before walking through the Red Sea. All this so
that thousands of years later, matzoh ball soup could exist. It’s mainly for
this most delicious of all Jewish foods that Passover gets the top spot on the
list, but I kind of love the whole thing. You get to drink four glasses of
wine, which is Manischewitz if you’re doing anything right, before dinner and
that ALWAYS makes food good. You get to mix horseradish with charoset, the
Jewish interpretation of mortar.

I can see where it would be a drag if you went to a seder that was four hours
long and entirely in Hebrew, but the reform Jews I party with never make me
wait that long. Plus, unlike Yom Kippur, the mere hour of sitting and waiting
for food makes the anticipation build to the perfect level, unlike not eating
for 24 hours.

2. Chanukah

However you spell it, it means latkes. If you have never had a latke I weep for
you; imagine mixing onion rings and french fries, then dipping them in sour
cream, then chasing the whole thing with a jelly donut. Sound pretty good? Yes
it does. It’s also the only Jewish holiday where I’ve ever set wrapping paper
on fire in the living room. Hey, it’s the festival of lights.

3. Rosh Hashanah

Jewish new year means dipping apples in honey and then eating them, and also
that the challah bread is round. Actually, for whatever (deeply symbolic I’m
sure) reason, we usually get chocolate chip challah, which is pretty good. Plus
the Hebrew part is short and you’re free to snack throughout.

4. Yom Kippur

I imagine this is down near the bottom of anyone’s list, because it’s the
Jewish holiday that focuses on the opposite of eating. I did fast for the day
once, though I had a normal life and didn’t have to go to Jewish services all
day that day or anything, which I hear makes you even hungrier. The break fast
food is usually just OK, relatively bland and light because after all these
people haven’t eaten anything all day.

5. Purim

All I know about Purim is Hamentashen (and that it’s “Jewish Halloween”), and
those are pretty good.

6. Sukkot

I celebrated this once. we sat in a tent and ate Domino’s pizza. Good, but it
wasn’t any matzoh ball soup or latkes.

There you have it. A knowledgeable, culturally sensitive guide to which Jewish
holiday invitations you should accept and which you should turn down.

Posted in Religion | Tagged jewish food, jewish holidays, judaism, matzoh ball
soup, passover, purim, rosh hashanah, sukkot, yom kippur | 1 Comment >>

St. Florian

September 10, 2009 by Alex

[stflorianholycard2]

This post is about penance. Well, sort of, though that would imply that this is
somehow punishment rather than something awesome. Last week at the local pub
quiz, there was FINALLY a question about a saint–who is the patron saint of
firefighters and chimney sweeps? Well, dear reader, I had absolutely no idea.
Naturally this led to a bit of existential crisis (if I can’t even get a pub
quiz question about a saint right WHAT AM I DOING?), but I got over it and
looked up good old Saint Florian.

Unfortunately, it’s also appropriate because Los Angeles is on fire (again)
right now*, and we could probably use all the help we can get.

Florian von Lorch lived around 300 CE, and all it seems like we really know
about him is that he was fairly high-ranking in the Roman Army stationed in
Noricum, which is now more or less where Austria is. I did find a source that
went on and on about how he was part of the valiant firefighting unit in
Noricum, but nothing else I can find backs that up much, though it’s some
interesting stuff about how firefighting worked in Rome, which is that people
had to pay firefighters to put out fires, and it turns out you can get a LOT of
money out of people whose houses are burning down. It’s a libertarian’s wet hot
dream.

Firefighter or no, Florian lived during the big Diocletianic Persecution, along
with some other obscure saints, and was thus (wait for it) persecuted for being
a Christian. What followed was pretty standard: first they were just going to
set him on fire and be done with it, but he got excited about that idea
(telling them he’d fly to heaven on the smoke), so they opted for the more
labor-intensive flogging and spiking and ripping out his shoulder blades with
hooks instead. Finally they tied a heavy stone around his neck and threw him
into the river Enns.

Miraculously in one piece, his body floated up onto a rock downstream, and an
eagle watched over it until a peasant woman named Valeria could have a vision
and come get the body. Afraid of being persecuted herself, she covered it with
twigs, leaves and braches and pretended that she was building a fence for her
garden. While taking him to where her vision said he should be buried, her
animals tired so God made them a spring, and they carried on. Finally he was
buried where he’d asked, though he was moved into the abbey at the town nearby,
and later still they sent some of his relics to Poland, because when it’s the
middle ages and you want a king to be your friend, you send him some bits of
your dead saint.

A whole bunch of healing miracles are attributed to him (including one case of
crushed genitals), but the thing he’s known for isn’t really clear. He’s
supposed to have extinguished an entire burning village by pouring a single
pitcher of water on it, but I can’t find whether that happened before or after
he died. How about I just go with my gut instinct, which is, “Story invented a
few hundred years later and posthumously ascribed to the living Florian.”
There, done. In fact that sentence will do anyone lots of good in the area of
Obscure Saint Studies.

Florian is the saint of firefighters, chimney sweepers, Poland, and beer
brewers, so you should buy a Polish firefighter a drink on May 4 and then use
him to sweep the chimney.

Translations!

*Thanks for asking, but no, the Illegiterati are not in any danger. Lots of
other people are, though.

Posted in Obscure Saint Blogging | Tagged antiquity, Catholicism, Diocletian,
Roman Empire, saints | 2 Comments >>

The Darwinian Heresy

August 1, 2009 by Alex

This morning, drinking coffee and reading Pharyngula, I came across this:

The Voyage that Shook the World: Trailer
The Voyage that Shook the World: Darwin as a Boy
(Embedding has failed me. Sorry.)

Which is the trailer for a creationist movie neatly reviewed by the Lippard
Blog. Obviously I would like to see this movie, but the closest screening to me
is in Austin (I’m in Los Angeles, where I can get anything I want any time of
the day, except apparently creationist movies).

Creationism actually bothers me, unlike most of the religious stuff I blog
about. I don’t think we’re in much danger of Quiverfull becoming anything more
than a fringe movement (the thing about having a dozen kids is then you have a
dozen kids),  just like the American public at large will not suddenly become
enamored of Sharia law or think speaking in tongues is an awesome fad. Yeah, I
could be wrong, but we’re on a pretty clearly unreligious course as a whole and
besides, I’m an optimist.

Evolution, however, is totally hard and complicated. It requires a basic
understanding of genetics and biology to even grasp properly, otherwise I
suspect it starts to sound a lot like “Your grandfather was a monkey,” which is
the most interesting family secret I can think of. (“We wanted to tell you when
you were a child, but your father was so ashamed and we just couldn’t, we
thought maybe you would come to some conclusions on your own…”) Creationism or
“Intelligent Design,” on the other hand, are delightfully simple: someone else
made everything this way. Bam! I suspect that it’s worming its way into public
schools in no small part because of this.

Here is something I don’t understand: why Charles Darwin is always dragged into
this mess. I know 2009 is his 150th birthday year and we’re all celebrating,
because figuring out evolution is a cool thing, but I don’t understand the
smear campaign that Creationists are running against the guy himself. It’s not
as though he’s responsible for the fact that this stuff seems to be going on,
he just found out about it. Demonizing him won’t make the last 100 years of
scientific research magically go away; Galileo recanted on geocentrism but the
earth doesn’t go around the sun any less.* If you’re going to disprove
evolution, shouldn’t you be, you know, disproving evolution?

The whole thing puts me in mind of heresies more than science, because they
seem to be operating on the idea that this is a movement, led by this one
(albeit dead) guy, and if they can discredit him then everything else will fade
away. If that’s true, I think it might belie a serious misunderstanding of what
science is by those trying to discredit it–it’s a testable set of hypothesis
about how the world works, not a movement dedicated to following one person’s
ideas.

Any creationists reading this want to suggest why the movement is so focused on
Darwin and not on what he said? I am all ears.

*”It still moves,” I know I know.

Posted in Religion | Tagged creationism, darwin, evolution, heresies,
intelligent design | 2 Comments >>

Facebook is Terrible: The Cellphone Bible

July 31, 2009 by Alex

My weirdly intense-yet-atheistic interest in religion can pretty much be traced
to growing up in a very Christian place while not having a religious family at
all. I’m sort of like that kid you know who’s never left Wisconsin but is
really inexplicably into Japanese culture, except there are no swords hanging
on my wall. Yet.

This puts me in a position of having several religious friends who I’m close
with, but an absolute deluge of Facebook friends (otherwise known as “people I
vaguely remember from high school”) who are very religious. Then they post
things. Fantastic, terrible, religious things for everyone to “think about.”

These posts are about those things.

Our first is actually from a friend of a friend, who got so excited that she
emailed the whole thing to me.

    Cell phone vs. Bible
    Ever wonder what would happen if we treated our Bible like we treat our
    cell phone?
    What if we carried it around in our purses or pockets?
    What if we flipped through it several time a day?
    What if we turned back to go get it if we forgot it?
    What if we used it to receive messages from the text?
    What if we treated it like we couldn’t live without it?
    What if we gave it to kids as gifts?
    What if we used it when we traveled?
    What if we used it in case of emergency?
    This is something to make you go….hmm…where is my Bible?
    Oh, and one more thing. Unlike our cell phone, we don’t have to worry about
    our Bible being disconnected because Jesus already paid the bill.
    Makes you stop and think – “where are my priorities?” And no dropped calls!

This particular nonsense comes from a long, proud line of nonsense which gets
all upset that something secular (e.g. cell phones, iPods, cars, television,
laser discs, the Beatles) are now more popular than the Bible; these things
also all assume that the reader is already Christian. That makes sense, given
that 77% of Americans self-identify as Christian (even though something like
15% of them attend church more than twice a year*). Presumably, the answer to
all these questions is supposed to be, “My life would be better in every way!”
not, “I would have the extra encumbrance that comes with carrying around a big
book.”

This little missive mostly makes sense. Mostly, because I have never “received
messages from the text” from my cellphone. Nope. I just receive texts like
everyone else, except apparently the author of this note. I’d use my Bible when
I traveled, but does it still work in Europe? Do I have to get a different
BibleCard for it so I can use it over there? Can I somehow use it to contact
AAA in case of an emergency? Maybe I should upgrade to a Bible with 100-mile
tow. I bet that would be extra useful if you were stuck in the Devil’s
Punchbowl or Hell’s Gate, and it would all be free because our buddy Jesus has
apparently pre-paid the bill.

My favorite, though, is the “And no dropped calls!” tacked on at the end there.
Well, no, the Bible does not drop calls. It also doesn’t carry calls in the
first place, unless “calling” here is a metaphor for “praying,” in which case
maybe the call is never dropped but we’re more like that guy in the old Verizon
commercials wandering the globe, shouting, “Can you hear me now?” into a book.
And then we give up and just call God back from our landline, because our Bible
doesn’t work in our office building, and this metaphor is really overextended
by now.

The point of this is, I think, Jesus should be #1 on your speed dial. That’s
right, even before your mom.

Two stars because while entertaining, I am not enlightened and it did not
really bring the crazy.

★★☆☆☆

*Totally made the second number up.

Posted in Internet, Religion | Tagged bad metaphors, bible, cell phones,
christians, facebook, Jesus | 2 Comments >>

                                Older Posts >>

  • Archives

      □ July 2011
      □ May 2010
      □ December 2009
      □ September 2009
      □ August 2009
      □ July 2009
      □ June 2009
      □ January 2009
      □ December 2008
      □ October 2008
      □ September 2008
      □ August 2008
      □ July 2008
      □ June 2008
      □ May 2008
      □ April 2008
      □ March 2008
  • Blogroll

      □ Fafblog!
      □ Jack Chick's Funnybook Gospel
      □ Jesus’ General
      □ Strange Maps
      □ The Plural Life
  • Get Nerdy

      □ The Wayward Classicist
      □ Xyre
  • Is it snacktime yet?

      □ 28 Cooks
      □ Pecan Sandy
  • YAY

      □ Dinosaur Comics
      □ Questionable Content
      □ Wondermark
      □ xkcd

Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.

The MistyLook Theme.


The Illegiterati
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. The MistyLook Theme.
Follow

Follow “The Illegiterati”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
