Skip to main content
Home Toggle navigation

  • Humanism 101
  • Officiants
  • Our News
  • Blogs
  • Contact
  • Facebook

 1.
 2.
 3.

...

Promoting a secular society in which civic affairs are free from religious
influence.

...

Humanism is a world view based on reason, science, dignity and compassion.

  Read More  

...

A Humanist wedding symbolizes commitment without the blessing of a supernatural
power.

  Read More  

Supreme Court rules against prayer at city council meetings

The Supreme Court of Canada has ruled the municipal council in the Quebec town
of Saguenay cannot open its meetings with a prayer.

In a unanimous decision today, the country's top court said reciting a Catholic
prayer at council meetings infringes on freedom of conscience and religion.

More here.

Recent Blog Entries

  • Letter to Carolyn Parrish
  • Letter to Mississauga Mayor

More
To promote a secular society in which civic affairs are free from religious
influence.

A non-prophet F.A.I.T.H. [ Freethinking Atheists Inspired to Humanism ] © group

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━


  •   Who Are We
  •   Objectives
  •   Statement
  •   Why Join Us
  •   Membership
  •   Donate

[medium_hphc_s]Founded in 2005, the Halton-Peel Humanist Community (HPHC) is a
community group that advocates separation of government and religion. We are
also affiliated with Humanist Canada, which is a non-profit charitable
organization.

We support the searching for meaning in a non-supernatural world. Science,
reason and compassion are at the heart of this secular world view. We work
toward secular and rational approaches to law, ethics, and social welfare.

To promote a secular society in which civic affairs are free from religious
influence. To promote rational dialogue and thought in the formation of public
policy. To protect the rights of Humanists, Secularists, Atheists and
Freethinkers and to oppose any attempts to impose religious-based laws and
beliefs on the general population. To respect the rights of individuals to
decide their own futures and their belief systems without interference from, or
fear of, dogma, mythology, religious stigma or persecution.

Religion is not necessary to lead moral and meaningful lives. The Halton-Peel
Humanist community, with members in Mississauga, Oakville and Caledon, is
guided by several important principles, including the acceptance of personal
and collective responsibility, the application of critical thinking, respect
for others and actions that are fair, honest and cooperative. About 16 per cent
of Canadians are not religious. Edgar Coxeter, one of the founders of the
original Oakville Humanist Community says that the time has come for the
non-religious to make their voices heard.

"A Humanist group is needed to provide intellectual and emotional support for
people as they explore what they believe and how to articulate it clearly," he
said. "We have no deity," added founding member Elka Ruth Enola, a well-known
Oakville poet and Humanist since the 1950s - she writes poems of conscience and
has published a book titled Womenfolk – and activist who helped lead the
opposition to Sharia being used in Ontario's family law arbitration. "We look
at the world with compassion and empathy, but without dogma," she said.
"Humanism is a philosophy of life," said Coxeter. "We believe in honesty,
rationality, cooperation, fairness and respect for each other." Enola adds that
Humanists accept responsibility for our lives, values and the environment.
"People with religion pass off responsibilities to their Gods.”

Enola has explained that she opposed Sharia on the basis that religion should
not influence law. "Church and state must be kept separate. "I'm not against
personal religious beliefs, but please don't impose them on others or use them
as an excuse for violence." Although the roots of Humanism can be traced to the
philosophers of ancient Greece, the modern Humanist movement evolved in Western
Europe and the first Canadian group was founded in Montreal in 1954. The
International Humanist and Ethical Union has grown into a worldwide
organization with more than a million members in 30 countries and consultative
status at the United Nations. There are a number of core principles that
Humanists adhere to, such as democratic principles, logic and scientific
inquiry, to find realistic solutions to problems. They are also dedicated to
upholding the separation of church and state in all levels of government to
ensure equality and fairness for all.

Humanists visit hospitals and hospices to talk to people who don't accept a
deity and afterlife and in order to give support to those who are at the end of
their lives. "We very specifically used the term 'community' in our name
(Halton-Peel Humanist Community) instead of 'organization' or 'association'
because we want the emphasis to be on people and our inter-relationships and
not on the formal structure of an organization," said Enola. Each meeting is
part business and part social, with an opportunity to discuss current issues
such as stem cell research and dying with dignity. Educating with an emphasis
on critical thinking and sponsoring guest speakers on Humanist topics are also
core activities of the Halton-Peel Humanists.

The Halton-Peel Humanist Community and affiliated regional Humanist groups
provide Atheists/Agnostics and other freethinkers with an extensive network of
people who share their philosophy and support their way of life. This includes
monthly discussions, socializing, officiant services for weddings and funerals,
and outreach programs such as non religious support for agnostic hospital
patients.

By mobilizing our human resource network, skills and funds, we are an effective
vehicles for initiating socio-political reform in Ontario. We actively campaign
for civil rights issues dealing with marriage, health, employment, education
and social welfare. For example, we are actively involved with the One School
System Network in Ontario seeking to eliminate the public funding of religious
education.

You can join our online discussion group by sending a blank message to:
h-phc-subscribe@yahoogroups.com or using the form below.

We hold regular events and meetings. More information can be found in our Meet
Up Group

Subscribe to H-PHC

Email
Subscribe to Yahoo Group
[logo-2x]

Please download the registration form below or buy a membership online:

Membership Form [28 kb]

By signing up online you are subscribing to an automatically renewing annual
membership in HPHC. If you prefer a membership for only ONE year, please use
the DONATE tab on the right and include special instructions for the Seller.

Additionally, as Humanist Perspectives are bulk delivered, members selecting
that option need to pick up their copies during meetings.


Options
[Individual (includes Humanist Perspectives) : $50.00CAD - yearly     ]
Address
[                    ]
E-Mail
Subscribe with Paypal
Our brochure in both English and French can also be downloaded below.

English Brochure [165 kb]

French Brochure [163 kb]

We are not a registered charity so cannot issue a tax receipt but donations are
gratefully accepted to offset our costs.

You can get a membership for ONE year through Donation - Don't forget to add
special instructions to the Seller

  • Individual (includes Humanist Perspectives) : $50.00CAD - yearly
  • Individual (without Humanist Perspective) : $35.00CAD - yearly
  • Family (includes Humanist Perspectives) : $65.00CAD - yearly
  • Low Income Individual (No Humanist Perspectives) : $15.00CAD - yearly
  • Low Income Family (No Humanist Perspectives) : $25.00CAD - yearly
  • Student (No Humanist Perspectives) : $10.00CAD - yearly



Donate with Paypal
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  Files

Useful files that can be downloaded

  Books

A list of useful books on humanism and non-theism.

  Movies

A list of useful movies on non-theism and the environment.

  Videos

Educational and entertaining YouTube vids.

  Halton-Peel Freethought Centre, 5330 Creditview Road, Mississauga, ON L5M 5N5

Web Dev by KT Visuals | Powered by Drupal & Bootwatch

