The Ottawa Skeptics

  • Pages

      □ About Us
      □ Conduct Guidelines
      □ Contact
      □ Event Calendar
      □ The Reality Check Podcast

Skepticamp Ottawa 2015

12036645_1500126053644033_1641600807964315445_n

Skepticamp is a user-driven mini-conference on science, skepticism and critical
thinking. Our 2015 event features a live Reality Check podcast and kids’
program.

This November 15th, join CFI and the Ottawa Skeptics for our fifth open
conference event, Skepticamp Ottawa 2015.

Skepticamps, modeled on the BarCamp approach of non-curated, user-driven
content and participation, are entertaining, educational and informative events
in a relaxed environment. The overall theme is science, skepticism and critical
thinking. This year we are at the Hintonburg Community Centre, Basement #2.
Come along to listen to some great talks, ask questions, and meet interesting
people!

Everyone’s welcome!

There will be a separate kids program.

The Reality Check will be doing a live Podcast. (http://www.trcpodcast.com/)

If you can’t make the full day, feel free to just drop in for the talks you
want to see. We look forward to seeing you there! To give us an idea of
attendance please RSVP.

Schedule:

09:30AM –10:00AM – SETUP
10:00AM –10:30AM – Doors Open
10:30AM –10:35AM – Marlowe: Welcome to Skepticamp
10:35AM – 10:55AM – Dana Peters: Swords to Plowshares: Fusion Power
10:55AM – 11:00AM – Andrea Palmieri: Stand up for Science:March Against Myths
About Modification
11:00AM – 11:20AM – R.J. Pate: Racism Within North America: The Logistics
11:20AM – 11:35AM – BREAK
11:35AM – 11:55AM – Alan DeKok: The scientific method, practices and
principles.
11:55AM –  12:15PM – TBD
12:15PM –  12:20PM – Seanna Watson: Does the chickenpox vaccine cause shingles?
12:20PM – 01:20PM – LUNCH
01:20PM – 02:20PM – Darren McKee, Adam Gardner: Live Taping of The Reality
Check Podcast
02:20PM –02:40PM – Nic Watson: Science, Skepticism, and Minecraft
02:40PM –02:45PM – Anthony Glaser: Debunking Myths about Greyhound Dogs
02:45PM –03:00PM – BREAK
03:00PM –03:20PM – Melodie Tilson: Science on E-Cigarettes
03:20PM –03:40PM – Yara Kadulina: Psychological research on Stereotype Threat
03:40PM –03:45PM – Seanna Watson: Always keep an open mind (but not so open
that your brain falls out)
03:45PM –03:50PM – Kevin Brown: Whose Qur’an Is This, Anyway?
03:50PM –04:10PM – Julian Janes: 2015 Top 10 lies, conspiracies, and general BS
04:10PM – 4:15PM – Marlowe Filippov: Conclusion
04:15PM – 05:00PM – MIX, MINGLE, & MERCH

08. November 2015 by Chris
Categories: Meetings, Upcoming Meetings | Leave a comment

Skepticamp Ottawa 2014 – Logistics

Skepticamp

When:

Sunday May 4th, 2014

 Doors open 0930

Talks begin at 1000 (full schedule here)

Lunch break from 1230 – 1330

Ends at 1730

Post-Skepticamp trip to a pub: details to be arranged on the day

 Where:

The Shopify Lounge

 

Access is through the carpark behind the building, at the Unicorn Door entrance
. Look out for the Skepticamp signage.

How:

Skepticamp Ottawa 2014 is a relaxed and informal event. Feel free to come in
and out for the talks that interest you – we’ll be there all day!

Thanks to our sponsors at the Centre for Inquiry Ottawa, we’ll provide snacks
and coffee, but for lunch we recommend checking out the market. There are many
restaurants and eateries located very near to the Shopify Lounge. 

Costs: Skepticamp Ottawa 2014 is a free event, but we do have some expenses to
cover. A suggested donation of $5 will help (if you can afford it).

Seating and space: A former nightclub, the Lounge is not short of space.
Seating, however, may be limited. We don’t want to limit RSVPs so be aware that
for some talks it may be standing room only, soapbox-style. If you need a seat
for any reason, please let the organisers know and we’ll do what we can to
accommodate you. 

Conduct guidelines / safe(r) spaces: 

The Ottawa Skeptics run open and friendly events. Please help us to keep it
that way!

The Ottawa Skeptics want to ensure that anyone attending our events is able to
participate in them fully, and we are committed to providing a safe and
hospitable environment for everyone, regardless of gender, gender identity,
sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, or
religion. We do not tolerate harassment of participants in any form.

If you are being harassed, notice that someone else is being harassed, or have
any other concerns, please contact an organizer and we will work with you to
resolve the issue.

The organizers reserve the right to remove anyone from an event if they deem
their actions to be disruptive to the event and/or its participants.

****************************************

Contact us using this link, or speak to an organiser in person at any of our
events.

05. April 2014 by Chris
Categories: Meetings | 1 comment

Skepticamp Ottawa 2014: Schedule

Skepticamp

1000 1005 Marlowe: Welcome to Skepticamp
1005 1040 Jim Davies: The Beauty of Bad Ideas
1040 1100 Alex Gonzalez: The bush of life: cladistics for the layperson
1100 1120 Kyla Cullain: Immunization: Biggest Conspiracy in the World or
Excellent Science?
1120 1135 Break
1135 1155 Kirsten Brouse: Why co-ops make good capitalism
1155 1230 Katie Gibbs: No Science, No Evidence, No Truth, No Democracy
1230 1330 Lunch break* 
1330 1350 M Farkas-Dyck: Food and Alternatives
1350 1410 Krista Thomas: 5 Myths about GMOs
1410 1430 Clifford Beninger: Why the 12-step Disease Concept of Addiction Must
be Abandoned
1430 1505 Michael Kruse: Science Advocacy on the Fringe
1505 1520 Break
1520 1540 Nicholas Robinson: Do you understand F=ma?
1540 1600 Danielle Quigley: Why is scientific inquiry important to bullying
prevention and intervention programs?
1600 1620 Darren McKee: Myths of Foreign Aid
1620 1630 Break
1630 1650 Josh Bowie: Free Will
1650 1710 Able Varghese: Engineering and Tech. Entreprenurship
1710 1730 Julian Janes: Cold reading: train to be a charlatan in 15 minutes or
less

*(lunch break: no food provided)

05. April 2014 by Chris
Categories: Meetings, Upcoming Meetings | Tags: Skepticamp | Leave a comment

Skepticamp Ottawa 2014: Speakers and talks

Skepticamp

Kyla Cullain. Vaccine Preventable Diseases: The need for a shift in strategy

Synopsis: The once nearly eliminated vaccine-preventable diseases of the past
are making a return to the developed world, but is it worth continuing the
battle with the anti-vaccination movement?  This talk outlines a controversial
approach to immunization, where to shift our current efforts, and the
inevitabilities otherwise.

Bio: Kyla Cullain, BScN, R.N. Kyla’s public health background is in
Communicable Diseases, Outbreak Management and Vaccine Preventable Diseases.
She is passionate about promoting evidence-based decision making in our
communities, health care organizations and governments. Kyla is currently
completing her Master of Nursing with a focus on community health development
and organizational leadership.

Josh Bowie. Free Will.

Synopsis: The evidence for the concepts of free will and determinism, and the
problems with the former, and the societal/ethical implications of the
findings.

Bio: Josh Bowie is a Masters student at Carleton University in Cognitive
Sciencewith an undergrad in Neuroscience and a Masters in Public Policy and
Administration.  I work full time at Industry Canada in the area of science
policy.

Krista Thomas. 5 Myths about GMOs.

Synopsis: Are GMOs tested? Have they been linked to cancer? This talk takes a
look at popular messages about GMOs in social media and attempts to separate
fact from fiction

Bio: Krista has an M.Sc. in biotechnology from the University of Guelph. For a
number of years she worked as a biotechnology regulator with the Canadian Food
Inspection Agency, overseeing programs for the environmental release of
genetically modified crops in Canada.

Nicholas Robinson. Do you understand F=ma?

Synopsis: Scientific education and literacy. Nicholas will present several
statistics illustrating the lack of scientific literacy and offer ideas on how
the education system has helped contribute to a lack of scientific literacy
among the general public.

Bio: High-school student (grade 12) in Ottawa. Hoping to study physics.

Alex Demarsh. Near/Far: An introduction to construal level theory.

Synopsis: Thinking, Near and Far. The concept of distinct modes of cognition
operating under different circumstances (so called “dual process models”) is a
useful addition to any Skeptic’s toolbox. In this talk, I’ll describe one such
model; Construal Level Theory (CLT; aka Near vs. Far thinking). Succinctly, the
extend to which objects under consideration are perceived as psychologically
distant influences the level of concreteness with which we think; in general,
more distance equals more abstraction. I’ll give an overview of the theory,
present contexts in which one mode may be advantageous, and suggest general
strategies conducive to mode switching.

Bio: Epidemiologist by day, psychological dumpster diver by night. 

M Farkas-Dyck. Food and Alternatives.

Synopsis: Much common counsel on food is scientifically unsound, for examples,
that grains are healthy foods or that salt, saturated fat, and cholesterol
cause cardiovascular disease. In this talk, I shall evaluate such claims with
evolutionary rationale and empirical data.

Bio: A space systems design engineering student and an amateur computer
programmer and theoretical physicist.

Able Varghese. Engineering and Tech. Entrepreneurship.

Synopsis: Engineering and Tech. Entrepreneurship.  1.) How closely related are
they? 2.) What makes an entrepreneurial person feel limited? is he really
limited in some way? 3.) How big of an influence and change you can create in
the society using your entrepreneurial skills?

Bio: Mechanical Engineering student at Carleton. Have completed or been part of
almost 20 engineering projects. Won city and provincial recognitions for many
of them, including some NASA hosted project competitions. Have run & carried
out Executive roles in many Organizations/Clubs. A budding entrepreneur and
business enthusiast. Find more:- http://ca.linkedin.com/in/ablevarghese

Michael Kruse. Science Advocacy on the Fringe.

Synopsis: Science is only one aspect of any public policy decision, but it is
being increasingly ignored in favour of straight-out ideology or relativistic
games. Bad Science Watch is fighting to keep science in the picture in areas
like public health and social welfare and we need to inspire the current and
next generation of science-literate citizens to get involved in the fight.
 This talk will go over some of our projects and their results since our
inception in 2011.

Bio: Michael is an advanced-care paramedic in York Region, just north of
Toronto, Ontario.  He has been active in the science advocacy community for 5
years and is currently the chair of the board at Bad Science Watch, a
non-profit group promoting good science in public policy.  Michael blogs at 
Huffingtonpost.ca and Skepticnorth.com and is committed to a compassionate
defense of science for the betterment of all Canadians.

Darren McKee. Myths of Foreign Aid.

Synopsis: An exploration of some questions about foreign aid such as whether
too much is given to if it actually works.

Bio: Darren McKee is the host of the Canadian skeptical podcast The Reality
Check and has given presentations at three previous Skepticamps.

Kirsten Brouse. Why co-ops make good capitalism.

Synopsis: This talk will explore a few of the pros and cons associated with our
current economic system and why cooperatives, and the cooperative movement
might be an interesting answer to some of the pitfalls of capitalism. Can
cooperatives keep the pros of corporate capitalism while mitigating some of the
cons?

Bio: Kirsten is a founding board member of the West End Well cooperative – a
cooperatively owned business opening in Hintonburg in June. She is also an
organizational consultant specializing in change management, strategic planning
and stakeholder engagement, and a masters student at the University of Ottawa
studying how organizations learn and adapt in fragile states.

Katie Gibbs. No Science, No Evidence, No Truth, No Democracy

Synopsis: There have been drastic changes to science in Canada in recent years.
 These changes have happened in three distinct ways: reduction in the ability
of government scientists to communicate their research to the public, the
erosion of our science capacity, and a reduction in the role of evidence in
policy decisions. The impacts of these changes go far beyond science. Science
and evidence are essential elements for a functioning democracy. These concerns
have led to a more vocal scientific community as well as the formation of
Evidence for Democracy – a new science-led, national, non-partisan, non-profit
organization advocating for science and evidence-based policies in Canada.

Bio: Katie Gibbs is a scientist, communicator, and organizer who is passionate
about the intersection of science and policy. After finishing a PhD at the
University of Ottawa in Biology she co-founded Evidence for Democracy—a new
organization that advocates for the use of evidence in government decision
making and public policy development.

Danielle Quigley.  Why is scientific inquiry important to bullying prevention
and intervention programs?

Synopsis: Hundreds of bullying prevention and intervention programs exist and
educators, mentors, and youth leaders are left to their own devices to choose a
program they think will be effective. The best predictor of whether a program
will be chosen isn’t whether the program works, it’s whether it’s been
recommended by a friend or colleague. When the majority of programs make little
to no difference, and 15% of them actually make things worse for the children
and youth they’re supposed help, wouldn’t it be better if evidence-based
programs were easily accessible to the adults children and youth rely on?

Bio:I am a post-doctoral fellow with the Promoting Relationships and
Eliminating Violence Network (Queen’s and York Universities). I did my graduate
work at Carleton University and studied motivations for social aggression
(gossip, exclusion, rumour spreading, etc.) among youth and young adults.

Jim Davies. The Beauty of Bad Ideas.

Synopsis: Based on his forthcoming book “Riveted,” Jim Davies presents a new
explanation of why people can find bad ideas compelling. In his theory, people
believe in paranormal and religious ideas for many of the same reasons they
appreciate art. In this talk, he will present the compellingness foundations
theory, and describe how bad ideas that spread are specifically well-suited to
fit human minds.

Bio: Jim Davies is an associate professor in the Institute of Cognitive Science
at Carleton University. Director of the Science of Imagination Laboratory, he
explores processes of visualization in humans and machines and specializes in
artificial intelligence, analogy, problem-solving, and the psychology of art,
religion, and creativity. His work has shown how people use visual thinking to
solve problems, and how they visualize imagined situations and worlds.

Clifford Beninger. Why the 12-step Disease Concept of Addiction Must be
Abandoned.

Synopsis: The “Disease Theory of Addiction” as propounded by 12-Step  
(Alcoholics Anonymous, Narcotics Anonymous etc.) organizations and institutions
is so seriously flawed that in order to progress further in the understanding
and treatment of addiction it needs to be abandoned and a new paradigm adopted.

Bio: Clifford W. Beninger B.Sc., M.Sc., Ph.D. in Biology. Research areas
entomology, chemical ecology, ecology. Author and editor. Chair of Secular
Organizations for Sobriety (SOS) Ottawa.

 Julian Janes. Cold Reading – How to Become a Charlatan in 15 minutes or less.

Synopsis: For this talk I will talk briefly about what cold reading is and how
it is used, and then move into practical discussions of specific techniques
used by “psychics” and “mediums”. The hope is to give everyone a few tools to
convincingly demonstrate cold-reading to believers of woo.

Bio: I am a former teacher who spends most of his time moulding his children to
be world-class critical thinkers.

05. April 2014 by Chris
Categories: Meetings | Leave a comment

Skepticamp Ottawa 2014

This May 4th, join the Ottawa Skeptics for our fourth open conference event, 
Skepticamp Ottawa 2014.

Skepticamp

Skepticamps, modeled on the BarCamp approach of non-curated, user-driven
content and participation, are entertaining, educational and informative events
in a relaxed environment. The overall theme is science, skepticism and critical
thinking. This year we are once again at the Shopify Lounge, right in the heart
of downtown Ottawa. Come along to listen to some great talks, ask questions,
and meet interesting people.

We have a full day of fascinating talks from 15 speakers, including three
excellent keynotes: Katie Gibbs, co-founder of Evidence for Democracy; Michael
Kruse, Chair of Bad Science Watch; and Jim Davies, Director of the Science of
the Imagination Laboratory at Carleton University.

Talk synopses and speaker bios are available here, and here’s the full schedule
.

Everyone’s welcome. To give us an idea of attendance please RSVP at meetup or
 on Facebook and check out the logistics page for more information. If you
can’t make the full day, feel free to just drop in for the talks you want to
see. We look forward to seeing you there! 

BD42GvHCEAEoj5K

Darren Mckee, Skepticamp Ottawa 2013

02. April 2014 by Chris
Categories: Meetings | Leave a comment

Friday 13th: Ottawa Skeptics in the news

The Ottawa Skeptics’ Darren McKee, host of the Reality Check podcast, talked to
Centretown News about Paraskevidekatriaphobia, the fear of Friday the 13th.

Check out the story here.

14. December 2013 by Chris
Categories: Local News, Local Research | Leave a comment

Radio: The Ottawa Skeptics on Ron Corbett Unscripted

Our very own Darren McKee, long time Ottawa Skeptics member and host of The
Reality Check podcast, appeared on CFRA News Talk Radio for a special Halloween
episode of Ron Corbett Unscripted to participate in a debate about ghosts,
spirits and the paranormal.

Download an mp3 of the interview here.

 

03. November 2013 by Chris
Categories: Local Research, Organization, The Reality Check - Podcast | Leave a
comment

Skeptically Scary Pub Quiz – bring your 3-D glasses!

Ghosts and ghouls and physics’ own rules, cultures, vultures, and sepultures!
Sorry, no special appearance by WoodyFrankenstein's_monster_(Boris_Karloff)
Tobias Jr., but questions still to puzzle your puzzlers as you giggle and
guzzle. Oh, and there will be a few sports-related questions.

When: Thursday October 24th, 7pm

Where: Royal Oak, 161 Laurier Avenue East

RSVP at meetup.com

*******************************************

Compete for prizes or kudos in this British-style pub quiz. If you don’t have a
team already, don’t worry; most people don’t. Just join up with other folks
after you arrive. Nobody will be without a team.

First time at the Ottawa Skeptics? Never been to an event before? This is a
great way to meet and mingle, so come on out!

********************************************

The Ottawa Skeptics meetup group runs open and friendly events. To help us keep
it that way, please read our conduct guidelines.

19. October 2013 by Chris
Categories: Meetings, Upcoming Meetings | Tags: halloween | Leave a comment

In This Town, We Still Obey The Laws Of Thermodynamics

It has been five years since we posted the report on the Perepiteia Generator,
a device that inventor Thane Heins, is careful not to call a perpetual motion
machine (except that it would be if it worked as described, but it doesn’t,
which means he’s accidentally telling the truth). Since then, the original
article has gathered a couple of comments which perhaps deserve a reply. Also,
we’ve been on Heins’s mailing list ever since, meaning that at intervals we
receive a blast of self-promotion from him, usually accompanied by documents
purporting to show positive results for his experiments, and — fascinatingly —
email exchanges he has had with other people, which Heins apparently interprets
as endorsements (I think — sometimes it’s difficult to discern the purported
significance of the attachments). In addition, in 2010 Seanna and I were
interviewed for a CBC documentary series on maverick inventors (or if you
prefer: crackpots), which is the first (and likely only ever) time we have been
interviewed on the same radio program as Steve Novella. All of which culminated
in a presentation to Ottawa Skeptics this last spring.

So, What’s Up With Thane Heins?

Some good stuff, some not so good (ie. for Thane Heins). On the one hand, he
now claims a partnership with e-bike maker HERO, and is working on integrating
his Perepiteia device (re-branded as ReGenX, and with a shiny new theory about
how it works) into an e-bike.  On the other hand, in 2010 the University of
Ottawa evicted Heins from their lab space, and based on the videos at his
Youtube channel, it looks like he’s back to working out of his basement.  As a
side-line, Heins has also discovered chemtrails in the sky over Ottawa and
environs. Yes, those chemtrails.

Well, does it work, or what?

Heins’ claims regarding his invention are a bit roundabout. For example, from a
2011 press release:

    An independent test of a Heins’ innovation conducted at the University of
    Ottawa required just forty percent (40%) of normal energy input to double
    generator output (200%).

Note what it doesn’t say: that Perepiteia produces more power than it consumes;
only that it is possible to increase the output power of his device while
decreasing the input power. That in itself may sound great until you realize
that it is satisfied by, for example (using numbers that are made up — but
typical of his reported results): a machine that produces 1 watt of output
power with 100 watts of input, but under different conditions, produces 2 watts
of output while consuming 40 watts. In other words, the claim, while sounding
impressive, tells us nothing about whether Heins’ invention represents
fundamentally new physics, or even a useful improvement in generator efficiency
(an increase of efficiency from a mere 1% to a only-slightly-less-mere 5%
is….distinctly unimpressive).

By the way: the headline on that press release? About the  ”patented energy
breakthrough” ? While a search of Canadian, American and international patent
databases turns up several patent applications from Thane Heins (for ReGenX and
other inventions), none have ever been issued, and in fact, all are now
expired. As far as I can determine, Heins has no granted patents to his name.

I don’t know which set of results Heins bases the above claim on, but here is a
typical set of results, extracted from one of his emails:

             Motor Input Load Power Motor Speed
               (watts)    (watts)      (RPM)
  No Load    129         0          3440
100 Ohm Load 121         2.13       3455

The first line of the table, labelled  ”No Load”  represents the case where
nothing is connected to the generator output. In this condition, the entire 129
watts input to the motor is going to losses in the wiring, in the magnetic
cores, in bearing friction. The second line of the table represents the case
where he has connected a 100 ohm load resistor across the output. Now getting
2.13 watts out is not very impressive, but the interesting part here is that
the motor input power, while still much larger than the output, has dropped by
8 watts! Moreover, the shaft speed has increased from 3440 RPM to 3455 RPM —
also counter-intuitive, as one would normally expect a generator to slow down
under load.

This is the core of Heins’ claims about  ”regenerative acceleration”  — that an
electric vehicle equipped with a ReGenX device can recharge its batteries while
accelerating. He uses the term  ”regenerative acceleration” in contrast to the
regenerative braking performed by hybrid and electric vehicles, in which the
electric motor is run as a generator, converting some of the kinetic energy
from the wheels back into electricity. Heins claims he can also perform that
trick while the vehicle is speeding up.

Is it  free energy?

Well, Heins thinks it is. His reasoning goes: the no-load test tells us the
system losses. So if the input power drops under load, we also get some output
power, the difference must be coming from….wherever it is that free energy
comes from. In this case, we’re getting:

129-121+2.13=10.13 watts of free energy

Using 121 watts to create 10 watts of free energy is obviously not going to
solve any energy crisis — the overall efficiency of the ReGenX is still less
than 2%, where conventional generators are typically 90% efficient. But to be
making any free energy at all would be remarkable — if this represents
proof-of-concept, then surely all we have to do is tinker with things, scale it
up a bit, and we can achieve over 100% efficiency, right?

But note the assumption Heins is making: that system losses under load are the
same as no-load losses. There is no reason to accept this, and good reason to
reject it. To understand why this is, it’s necessary to take a close look at
what’s going on in the ReGenX, and to do that, we need to understand a little
basic generator theory.

Generator Theory 101

The diagrams below represent a generator coil such as is found in the ReGenX: a
length of wire wound around a core made of some iron alloy, with the ends
brought out to the load (represented here by a light bulb), with a moving
magnet passing by the end of the core. Let’s consider in detail what happens as
the magnet approaches, passes, and recedes from the core. In the following
discussion, keep in mind we’re considering the ideal case — the kind of thing
presented in an introductory course.

First, you need to know two basic rules about electromagnetism:

 1. Electricity makes magnetism.
 2. (Changing) magnetism makes electricity.

As the magnet is approaching (see Diagram #1), its field begins to enter the
iron core (red arrow), ie. the magnetic flux in the core starts increasing. The
increasing magnetic flux induces a voltage in the coil (see Rule #2), causing
current to flow through the load. However, the flowing current induces its own
magnetic field (see Rule #1) in the core (blue arrow). According to Lenz’s Law,
the induced field will oppose the increase in the applied field, ie. it will
point in the opposite direction. This means that it repels the approaching
magnet.

NewSkepticsPost-Diagram1

Diagram #1

In Diagram #2 the magnet has passed and is now receding from the core. As it
does so, the magnet’s field in the core will be decreasing, which again induces
a voltage in the coil, only now in the opposite direction. Since the coil
current now flows in the opposite direction, the induced field also points in
the opposite direction (again, this is in agreement with Lenz’s Law, according
to which the induced field will now try to maintain the field in the core).
This means that it attracts the receding magnet.

NewSkepticsPost-Diagram2

Diagram #2

The alternating repulsion and attraction, always opposing the motion of the
magnet, puts mechanical resistance on the motor that is driving the magnet,
thus slowing down its rotation, and causing it to draw more power from the
supply. This is the normal, expected behaviour. Note that Lenz’s Law figures
prominently in the physics of the situation — in fact, it’s easy to show that
Lenz’s Law is equivalent to conservation of energy for magnetic devices. If you
can fool Mr. Lenz, you have a free energy device. Thane Heins knows this, which
is why he claims to have  partially  overcome Lenz’s Law, and why he makes much
of the generator speed-up observed in his experiments. In fact, he claims that
his ReGenX machine reverses the alternating repulsive-attractive behaviour of
the interaction between the magnet and the core.

The Core of the Matter

The discussion in previous section assumes ideal behaviour. Among the effects
neglected is core loss due to hysteresis and eddy currents. Hysteresis is the
tendency of the core to retain the applied magnetic field after the field is
removed (in other words: to become a permanent magnet) and is a characteristic
of the core material. Eddy currents are electrical currents induced in the
metal body of the core, rather than in the coil. Both of these phenomena
consume energy, generating waste heat in the core. And of course the power
wasted in the core is felt by the prime mover, every bit as much as power
delivered to the load is. We have been building motors and generators for over
a century, and lot of research has gone into developing materials and
construction methods to minimize these loss mechanisms. In modern
commercially-manufactured machines designed by professionals they are
negligible.

Thane Heins, while a competent enough handyman, is not a professional. We don’t
know what his generator coils are wound on, though it may very well be the same
mild steel that the structure of the apparatus itself is built from. In any
case, they are probably lossy — losses which are incurred whether or not there
is an external load connected across the output. In other words: Heins’s  no
load  condition is already significantly loaded by core loss.

So why does the the generator speed up when a load is connected? Refer again to
the diagrams: the induced field, created by the load current, opposes, and thus
reduces the applied field, therefore reducing the losses. Paradoxically,
Heins’s  loaded  condition is actually less loaded than his  no-load 
condition.

But why does it draw less power when it’s running faster?

One last detail: a lot of people (such as one of the commenters on the previous
post) are under the impression that, contrary to the observed behaviour of
ReGenX, the driving motor should draw more power as it runs faster, not less.
Certainly it seems intuitive. Explaining why this is false would require
several hours of lecture on basic electric motor theory but nonetheless the
opposite is true (and the reasons are taught in every introductory
undergraduate course on the subject). The diagrams below plot torque (blue
curves) and input current (orange curves) vs. speed for two common types of
electric motor, both of which have been used by Heins. Note that, in both
cases, the current falls as speed increases, over the entire operating range of
the motor.

NewSkepticsPost-Diagram3

Diagram #3

Conclusion

In ReGenX, Thane Heins has built a fantastically inefficient generator, and
then runs it in a way that makes it just slightly less inefficient. The ReGenX
device does not represent  free energy , or any other novel physical
phenomenon: merely bad magnetics — and lot of self-promotion.

20. September 2013 by stevewatson
Categories: Local Research, Ottawa Skeptics Investigation | 13 comments

Skeptics in the Pub: “Re-think 9/11”? Think again!

On this year’s anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, many people were surprised to
see ads appearing on buses in Ottawa, calling on us to “Re-Think 9/11”.

These ads, part of an international campaign organized by the group Architects
and Engineers for 9/11 Truth (A&E 9/11), call into question the common
understanding of the events of 9/11.

Instead of being the results of terrorist activity, the members of A&E 9/11
assert that, based on their experience in engineering and building design, the
collapse of three towers that day cannot be explained by impact damage and
fires and are more easily explained as being the result of a “controlled
demolition”.

Presented by the Ottawa Skeptics, this talk looks into the most prominent
arguments of A&E 9/11, to sort out the real truth of the matter. We also ask
some questions ourselves, about who these architects and engineers really are,
and what motivates their activities.

Everyone is welcome to attend.

 

Where: The Royal Oak on the Canal, 221 Echo Drive, Ottawa

When: Monday September 23rd

RSVP at meetup.com

18. September 2013 by Chris
Categories: Meetings, Upcoming Meetings | Tags: a&e911, rethink911 | Leave a
comment

← Older posts

  • TRC Podcast
  • RSS The Reality Check Podcast

      □ TRC #384: Did Nikola Tesla Contact Aliens? + FTC vs Lumosity + Ugly
        Baby Lawsuit?
      □ TRC #383: Lardass Autocorrect Kardashian? + Name That: Internet 2015
        Edition + Last Year’s Fave Segments + 2016 Predictions
      □ TRC #382: Dunning-Kruger Effect + Deep Learning + Do The British Have
        Bad Teeth?
  • Categories

      □ Local Research (20)
          ☆ Local News (13)
          ☆ Ottawa Skeptics Investigation (6)
      □ Meetings (23)
          ☆ Upcoming Meetings (20)
      □ News (23)
          ☆ Canadian News (9)
          ☆ International News (6)
      □ Organization (24)
          ☆ About_Us (5)
          ☆ Profiles (17)
      □ The Reality Check – Podcast (209)
          ☆ 'The Reality Check' Episodes (199)
          ☆ 'The Reality Check' News (8)
      □ Topics (78)
          ☆ Alt. Med (31)
          ☆ Astrology and Superstition (4)
          ☆ Conspiracy Theories (5)
          ☆ Evolution Denial (7)
          ☆ Ghosts (2)
          ☆ Psychics/ESP (8)
          ☆ Skepticism (17)
          ☆ UFOs/Aliens (4)
      □ Uncategorized (1)

(C) 2016 The Ottawa Skeptics. Theme: Ari by Elmastudio. Proudly powered by
WordPress.

