The AHS

  • Contact Us
  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Log in

The National Federation of Atheist, Humanist and Secular Student Societies.

  • Home
  • News
      □ Blog
      □ Official
      □ Newsletter
      □ Newsletter Signup
  • Resources
      □ Speaker Directory
      □ Promotional Material
      □ Event Resources
      □ Guides
  • Grants
      □ Society Grants
      □ AHS Travel Grants
  • Events
      □ AHS Convention & AGM 2016
      □ Key Dates
      □ Past Events
      □ Tell us about an upcoming event
  • Societies
      □ Join Us
      □ Our Members
      □ Ratification
  • Get Involved
      □ Volunteer with us
      □ Join Us
  • About
      □ The AHS
      □ FAQ
      □ Atheism, Humanism & Secularism
      □ The Team
      □ History
      □ Constitution
  • Menu

We aim to see a thriving atheist, humanist or secularist society on every
campus in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland

Join Us

The AHS is made up of individual student societies.

  • Find societies near you
  • Set up your own AHS society
  • Attend one of our events

Our Resources

We provide resources and advice for running a successful society.

  • See an overview of our guides, directories and other resources

Support Us

Convention & AGM 2016!

Follow @ahsstudents

  • Sign up to the Newsletter

Recent Articles

The need for AHS societies at universities in the UK and Republic of Ireland

By Hari Parekh

28th Nov, 2015

blog

What is the need for Atheist, Humanist and Secular student societies at UK and
Republic of Ireland (ROI) universities? The decline in religiosity in England
and Wales was documented in the 2011 Census. This suggests an increasing need
for institutions of higher education in the UK and ROI to provide an
alternative point of view to those espoused by traditionalised religious
societies, by creating a community for people to belong to. The National
Federation of Atheist, Humanist and Secular Student Societies (AHS) is the
optimum way of achieving this at UK and ROI universities.

The objective of the AHS, to have societies at every institute of higher
education in the UK and ROI, is a sound objective to have (and in my role as
new societies officer, I am trying to do so!), but what is the significance of
this objective? The need to provide students with an alternative view at
universities is paramount, as the purpose of having AHS societies on university
campuses is to promote rationality, discussion and debate. This is essential to
the university experience, and for students! An additional purpose is, for AHS
societies to act as a network for people that are non-religious or agnostic: in
particular apostates within the apostate-tripartite model. (more >>)

Non-Prophet Week – why we give

By Caitlin Greenwood

6th Nov, 2015

blog

Charity is often considered to be a specifically Christian virtue, which is a
tradition dating back at least to Thomas Aquinas. Aquinas stated that charity
was the love between god and man, and between man and his neighbour. The 1822
New Catholic Catechism reaffirmed this: “Charity is the theological virtue by
which we love God above all things for his own sake, and our neighbour as
ourselves for the love of God”. While some other Christian traditions have
defined charity in a more restricted way, better reflecting the modern
definition, they are in a somewhat of a minority worldwide.

The origin, then, of “Christian charity” seems to be a conflation of a specific
theological term, with a more generally used definition. But what of all those
Victorian philanthropists, wasn’t their charity directed by Christian morals?
Andrew Carnegie, perhaps the most famous philanthropist, was a member of a
Presbyterian church, and surely he stands for so many others, too numerous to
name? (Leaving aside, of course, the fact that Carnegie avoided theism for the
first half of his life, and joined the church well after beginning his
philanthropic efforts.)

Unfortunately, it is not quite so simple as all that. Simply wanting to do good
does not mean one automatically does good. (more >>)

Non Prophet Week: An International Call to Arms

By Martin Smith (Former AHS Secretary)

1st Sep, 2015

blog

“There can be no progress without head – on confrontation.”

  • Christopher Hitchens

The AHS this year is delighted to be working in collaboration with the
International Humanist Ethical Youth Organisation (IHEYO) to bring Non–Prophet
Week onto the world stage. The 9^th to 15^th of November is this year’s
Non–Prophet Week. IHEYO are calling it ‘Charity Week’. Why the name change you
ask? Well, consider the effect of an international humanist group raising
awareness and money for charity under the name of “Non–Prophet Week”. As many
of you will be aware, blasphemy is punishable by death in many of the countries
that immediately benefit from the AHS’ efforts during Non–Prophet Week. Indeed
just a few weeks ago Niloy Neel was brutally murdered for “blasphemy” in
Bangladesh.

Non–Prophet Week this year is even more essential because it is in a front line
fight. You and I may take a (relatively) secular state for granted but we are
the lucky ones.

The AHS’ chosen charity this year is GiveDirectly. You guessed it, GiveDirectly
take money from donors and give it to the poor. They can do this because modern
payments technology has drastically cut the costs of sending money directly to
the extreme poor, at the same time as new research has shown the powerful
effects this has on their lives. (more >>)

Other Recent Articles

  • Science: A Safe Space to be wrong (13/07/15)

  • Do not miss the AGM in Warwick! (08/07/15)

  • A Year (or two) at Warwick (06/07/15)

  • Caitlin Greenwood – Manifesto (14/06/15)

← View Older Articles

AHS Newsletter

27th August 15

[63dd9a05-8198-43ef-b2a5-141443bf7c16]

I’ll tell you who: no-one! No-one don’t not love stuff what isn’t free but
costs cash, fo’ serious!

You want free stuff for your Fresher’s fair? We got free stuff for your
Fresher’s fair.

You want to volunteer with the AHS, be invited to all the cool aquarium parties
and accomplish amazing things as part of a team of amazing people? That seems
like something we can arrange. Why not?

You want us to pay for Chris Johnson to travel to your SU with his award
winning film on atheism for a private screening followed by a Q&A? We can pay
for Chris’s godless shock rockup, mic drop, overnight stop and pork chop (pork
chop is a euphemism; we mean speaker’s fees, which we will pay).

This newsletter has a lot of freebies in it, so get reading. Immediately.

Don’t make me come over there,

Luke Dabin

Communications Officer (for a limited time only)
communications@ahsstudents.org.uk

 

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

 

VOLUNTEER WITH THE AHS

[0853e672-aff4-424d-ab94-9a93801bffae]

Officer positions have been open for some time and the deadline is TOMORROW at
midnight.

What’re the benefits of being an officer? As well as getting an inside look at
the mechanics of the AHS, you’ll meet a fantastic array of like-minded people,
receive compensated travel to major events across the country, contribute to
the development of the national movement and have an awful, awful lot of fun.
(more >>)

← View Older Newsletters

AHS

39 Moreland Street, London, EC1V 8BB.

The AHS is facilitated and supported by the British Humanist Association.

