↓

AA Agnostica

A space for AA agnostics, atheists and freethinkers worldwide

AA Agnostica
Home Menu ↓
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content

  • Home
  • About us
  • Links
  • How to Start an AA Meeting
  • Alternative 12 Steps
  • Literature
  • A History of Agnostic Groups in AA

Search for: Search
[Practical-Book]

Posts by Category

  • AA Literature for Agnostics
  • Agnostic Groups: Growth and Opposition
  • Book Reviews
  • Do Tell!
  • Experience, Strength and Hope
  • God, Religion and Prayer
  • Grapevine
  • History – Early
  • History – Modern
  • Key Players in AA History
  • Research / Many Paths
  • The 12 Steps
  • The 12 Traditions
  • The Alternative 12 Steps
  • The Practical Book

[CBC-Tapestry-Play]
[Alternativ]
[Dont-Tell-]
[Beyond-Bel]

Agnostic Group Websites - USA

  • We Agnostics Kansas City
  • San Antonio
  • Children of Chaos
  • Fayetteville
  • We Agnostics Boca Raton
  • Group of Drunks
  • Indy We Agnostics
  • AA Agnostics New York City
  • Quad A Chicago
  • Midtown Secularists
  • AAAO Idaho
  • Freethinkers in AA
  • We Agnostics Maui
  • San Francisco Bay Agnostics
  • Portland Secular AA
  • Safe Harbor We Agnostics
  • Tallahassee
  • Dallas Fort Worth
  • Cayuga Freethinkers

For weekly posts, click here:

[AA-BB-Fram]
[AA-et-les-athees-200]

Post navigation

← Older posts

The Fellowship and the Program

Posted on January 21, 2016 by RogerJanuary 21, 2016
Fellowship

By JEB By the time I made it to my first meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, 35
years ago, I had fully conceded to my innermost self (quit lying to myself)
that I am powerless over alcohol if I am ever stupid enough to pick up even one
drink; and the book … Continue reading →

Remembering Ernie Kurtz

Posted on January 19, 2016 by RogerJanuary 19, 2016
Ernie Featured

By bob k Catholics priests are not among those who one would expect to find
heading a list of crusaders for the freethinker movement in Alcoholics
Anonymous. Nonetheless Ernest Kurtz, ordained to the Roman Catholic priesthood
in 1961, was a dear friend of AAAgnostica.org, an enthusiastic proponent of the
work being … Continue reading →

Addiction and Suffering – Gabor Maté

Posted on January 14, 2016 by RogerJanuary 14, 2016
Gabor Featured

As we work towards The Practical Book: Tools We Find Helpful In Recovery this
interview with Dr. Maté is certainly relevant. It goes quite far in terms of
equating emotional suffering with physical disorder and disease. If that is
indeed the case, we would have more options, if very challenging ones, to deal
… Continue reading →

My Path in Alcoholics Anonymous

Posted on January 12, 2016 by RogerJanuary 12, 2016
Medallion

Chapter 17: Do Tell! Stories by Atheists & Agnostics in AA life j. The path was
not easy for this agnostic in AA. I was an atheist when I got sober, as
arrogant as most people with staunchly held beliefs. Sober, I have still never
felt the presence of a … Continue reading →

A Personal Inventory

Posted on January 7, 2016 by RogerJanuary 7, 2016
Self Inventory

For many in AA, the Steps contain important tools in our recovery from
alcoholism and addiction. Today Steve K. shares how Steps Four and Ten – a
personal inventory – are a part of his sobriety. The Steps will have their own
place in The Practical Book: Tools We Find Helpful in … Continue reading →

Take Three Degrees. Add Alcohol.

Posted on January 5, 2016 by RogerJanuary 5, 2016
Woman on Path

Chapter 16: Do Tell! Stories by Atheists and Agnostics in AA Martine R. The
decision to stop drinking alcohol, once and for all, is one I shall never
regret. I will soon celebrate 13 years of sobriety, after three decades of
active alcoholism. Because I am now a different, better … Continue reading →

Is Substance Use the Treatment or the Disease?

Posted on December 29, 2015 by RogerDecember 29, 2015
Brainexamine

Editor’s Note: Most of us seem to believe that alcoholism is a kind of
treatment: an attempt to resolve an underlying trauma or a “spiritual void” and
not, initially at any rate, a “disease” of the brain. Is that correct? If not,
why the emphasis, for example, on dealing with “character defects”? This …
Continue reading →

Mindfulness-Based Relapse Prevention

Posted on December 22, 2015 by RogerDecember 22, 2015
Water Lily

Editor’s Note: As you are probably aware, we are working on putting together
The Practical Book: Tools We Find Helpful in Recovery. Many people find that
meditation is one of those tools. In fact, three people have chosen that as
their topic for the book. Today we are sharing an … Continue reading →

Post navigation

← Older posts

Featured Posts

A Woman’s Way Through The Twelve Steps

A Woman’s Way Through The Twelve Steps

The Road to Santa Monica

The Road to Santa Monica

Metro Vancouver’s atheist alcoholics seek recovery without God talk

Metro Vancouver’s atheist alcoholics seek recovery without God talk

Marty Mann and the Early Women of AA

Marty Mann and the Early Women of AA

The “Don’t Tell” Policy in AA

The “Don’t Tell” Policy in AA

An AA Pamphlet for Agnostics – The 1970s

An AA Pamphlet for Agnostics – The 1970s

Father of We Agnostics Dies

Father of We Agnostics Dies

A Grapevine Book for Atheists and Agnostics in AA

A Grapevine Book for Atheists and Agnostics in AA

An AA Convention For We Agnostics

An AA Convention For We Agnostics

The Lord’s Prayer and the Law

The Lord’s Prayer and the Law

A Proposal to Eliminate the Lord’s Prayer from AA Meetings

A Proposal to Eliminate the Lord’s Prayer from AA Meetings

The Courts, AA and Religion

The Courts, AA and Religion

Bill Wilson’s Experience with LSD

Bill Wilson’s Experience with LSD

Agnostic AA Meetings Gaining Momentum

Agnostic AA Meetings Gaining Momentum

We are unstoppable

We are unstoppable

We Are Not Saints

We Are Not Saints

Personalizing the 12 Steps

Personalizing the 12 Steps

The Impossible Becomes Possible

The Impossible Becomes Possible

Responsibility Is Our Theme

Responsibility Is Our Theme

A higher purpose

A higher purpose

Fight over ‘God’ splits Toronto AA groups

Fight over ‘God’ splits Toronto AA groups

An Atheist’s Guide to 12-Step Recovery

An Atheist’s Guide to 12-Step Recovery

The Origins of the 12 Steps

The Origins of the 12 Steps

Four Years Old!

Four Years Old!

The Great Chain of Being

The Great Chain of Being

Jim Burwell

Jim Burwell

An AA Pamphlet for Agnostics – The 1980s

An AA Pamphlet for Agnostics – The 1980s

Conference in Olympia, WA, January 16. Click on the image for more details:

[Olympia-50]
[Austin-500]

We are now posting articles on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Please visit AA Beyond
Belief for articles by we agnostics in AA on Wednesdays and Sundays:

[AA-BB-Framed-200]
[For-a-list]
[Agnostic-G]

AA Agnostica Books: A Flyer for Your Literature Table

[AA-Agnostica-Rebellion-]
Do Tell!
[Available-]
[CSR-Cover-]
[Key-Player]

Agnostic Group Websites - Canada

  • AA Calgary Agnostics
  • The Only Requirement Group
  • Vancouver AAAA
  • AA Toronto Agnostics

Agnostic Group Websites - International

  • Melbourne
  • AA Freethinkers

Online:

[Skype-Onli]

The AA That You and I Love So Much

[Ernie-Home]
"Whenever, wherever, one alcoholic meets another alcoholic and sees in that
person first and foremost not that he or she is male or female, or black or
white, or Christian, Buddhist, Jew, or Atheist, or gay or straight, or
whatever, but sees... that he or she is alcoholic and that therefore both of
them need each other - there will be not only an Alcoholics Anonymous, but
there will be the Alcoholics Anonymous that you and I love so much and respect
so deeply."
Ernie Kurtz

[Bill-W]
(C) 2016 - AA Agnostica
↑
