                         Escape The Religion Industry

                                        

                                      by

                                        

                                Garry Greenwood

                                        

                                   [bible2]

                                        

A thought provoking essay which explores the possibility of a world free from
the constraints of religion.

  

Readers are encouraged to explore other ways of filling the void felt by so
many people nowadays and which

 all too often leads one to religion. It's a cozy supply and demand situation.

 

 Be challanged and try to imagine a world without religion.     

 

Read more of Garry Greenwood s true life religious adventures as a
once-top-level religious leader himself in his controversial and informative
e-book ALL THE EMPEROR S MEN  This link also leads to several of Greenwood s
other published articles dealing with his personal involvement as a religious
leader with religions gone wrong. Read tales of Jesus in Japan, Cults of Gold,
Tesla weapons, the whereabouts of the Ark of the Covenant, convicted Japanese
war criminals and the coming armageddon and more. It may help you fill that
void so often filled with religion. This may also be your chance to finally
escape religion.

 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                        

                         ESCAPE THE RELIGION INDUSTRY

                                        

What if I ve turned my back on all religions yet I am still very much open to
the possibility of such phenomena as, life after death, spirits, reincarnation
and that there s a cosmic intelligence responsible for life as we know it (or
don t know it) plus more? I sometimes wonder what category should I belong to?

 

I've always thought that these are important issues and that we should all
ponder from time to time as, let s face it, life is important. I have always
loved to consider such meaningful topics   where was I before I was born? What
was I doing there and what, if anything, will I be doing when I die? I m sure
many people entertain these or similar thoughts at various times throughout
their lives, too.

 

Sadly, for many of us, these and other critical thoughts and questions were
hijacked eons ago, and still are today, by the ever-pervasive religion
industry. Just as all human needs are serviced or filled by someone with the
desired product or service, so too, the religion industry fulfills that same
role. You could say it s all a matter of supply and demand and it s that demand
that I wish to also focus on in my  Escape the Religion Industry  essay. We are
all aware that, for various reasons (mainly supply and demand), new industries
come into existence whilst older or outdated ones eventually die out. This
raises the question: when, if ever, will religions also cease to exist?

 

     My view is that if there is no evidence for it, then forget about it.

    An agnostic is somebody who doesn t believe in something until there is
                       evidence for it, so I m agnostic.
                  -Carl Sagan, American astronomer and author

 

Since religions are currently fulfilling the needs of their adherents how would
their demise come about? This a difficult question to answer simply, but by
sharing my religious and spiritual experiences accumulated over many decades
often as a religious leader myself, I hope I can add a little to this growing
debate. I am not alone in this new quest   or perhaps you could call it a new
kind of service industry, too, as nowadays any internet search will reveal a
whole plethora of websites and forums dedicated to the same cause of urging
religion followers to WAKE UP and take back control and responsibility for
their own beliefs and actions.

 

I make no claims at being a religious scholar, but I speak with a certain
degree of authority since I was once a high-ranking religious leader for around
fifteen years as you will discover further on in this essay.

 

            If we believe absurdities, we shall commit atrocities.

              Voltaire, French author and playwright (1694-1778)

 

 

        HOW I CHANGED FROM A HAPPY AND CONTENTED PERSON TO A FIREBRANT

                      RELIGIOUS ZEALOT AND THEN BACK AGAIN

 

I was brought up in Central Queensland, Australia, to be a happy, active and
well-adjusted person. I loved nature and spent much of my spare time out in it
often camping or taking long rides alone on my pet pony far out onto the vast
grassy plains which surrounded my home. I felt free both physically and in my
thoughts   and naturally assumed that this was how life was meant to be.

 

This idyllic way of being quickly began to fall apart when my mother was
suddenly admitted to hospital for an emergency life saving operation. Her
doctor, who was a devout catholic, convinced her at this most critical moment
to convert to catholicism because he was of the opinion that this would enhance
her chances of survival. My desperately ill mother agreed that if she did
survive the operation she would comply and also have all the family convert,
too. Mum survived, and it wasn t long before I found myself religiously
attending mass every Sunday - it was a mortal sin to miss Sunday mass and, as
we were taught, mortal sinners were destined for the everlasting fires of hell,
so what choice did I have but to comply. I am now of the opinion that any
clergyman who preaches eternal damnation to a child is guilty of child abuse
and should be prosecuted accordingly. 

 

My Saturdays were now disrupted with special catechism or catholic dogma
lessons and every Sunday, without fail, were of course disrupted by mass. I was
quickly dispatched to a strict catholic school wherein, in those days (the 60 
s), my mind was inculcated with a myriad of complex do s and don ts and their
relevant fearful consequences for non-compliance.

 

I was soon stripped of my innocence and became preoccupied in avoiding, at any
cost, the pitfalls leading to eternal damnation   and believe me, there were
many. An  us versus them  mentally began to overshadow anyone and everyone I
knew or met.

 

Within six months of my forced conversion I was a transformed person. I was
still only around twelve years old at this stage and no longer was I prone to
let my inquisitive mind ponder deep and meaningful-to-me, concepts important
for a fruitful life. I now had to accept the church s view. There was no room
for questioning and a form of inquisitive atrophy set in. I was told how the
pope s words were infallible   don t think for yourself and keep studying the
bible and the other prescribed texts. Any form of sex or sexual thoughts or
feelings will lead to eternal damnation. I was already dammed then. Be pure and
chaste like the clergy - I was taught. Nowadays, we discover how so many
catholic and other clergy are being exposed as child molesters or pedophiles.
To make matters worse many of these predators have been protected by their
superiors and some have sought asylum in the vatican where they are hoping to
be protected from prosecution or extradition. In my mind this also raises
questions about the degree of complicity of any practising catholics who
knowingly and willingly support the catholic industry knowing full well that
this is an industry which protects and continues to give sanctuary to such
criminals. Exactly where does the guilt and complicity end?  

 

 If people are good only because they fear punishment, and hope for a reward,
                        then we are a sorry lot indeed.
               -Albert Einstein, German-born American physicist 

 

Now, several decades later and in the autumn of my life, and back in my own
mind again, I look back upon the sad absurdity of my situation then and it
still makes my blood boil knowing that nothing much has changed in this
industry   the catholic church being just one of the many service companies
within the religion industry.  Looking back, I cannot imagine how I surrendered
myself to such a power, to such an un-proven and un-scientific ideology. I
cannot believe how quickly I gave away my desire to ponder and mull over, what
I thought at the time, the big questions of human existence.  Such
contemplation had once been important to me. Sadly, having now lost this
ability and to simply accept whatever I was told, the seeds had been sown for
what was about to come.

 

Unlike most religion followers, I was converted to religion: catholicism,
something that most people never do. For most people it s so simple   if you
were born a jew, a muslim or a christian you simply adopted, without
question, the religion into which, and by pure chance, or by default, you were
born into. What s startling is that although one s religion was chosen simply
by default people will then go on to claim it to be the most superior of all,
and by natural extension come to see themselves as more special or more chosen
than those of the other inferior religions - such is the power of geography in
the destiny of humanity. Even without studying or experiencing other religions,
for some, their default religion will be defended even to the point of their
death or, more unfortunately, the deaths of others. Unbelievable!

 

You never see animals going through the absurd and often horrible fooleries of
                              magic and religion.

                  Only man behaves with such gratuitous folly.

     It is the price he has to pay for being intelligent but not, as yet,
                              intelligent enough.


                          Alex Haley, author "Roots"

                                        

It reminds me a bit like product or company loyalty in the world of commerce  
once a Ford automobile family, always a Ford family irrespective of the quality
of competitors. I prefer to eat whole meal bread whilst many insist on refined
white bread. It s really that simple   and scary.

 

I must confess that I never did make a good catholic as my peers and teachers
would have liked, instead I seemed more preoccupied in dodging the pitfalls
which would have had me dispatched to the eternal flames. As I grew older and
after a decade of no contact with the religion my mind and thoughts slowly
returned to what I would consider a reasonable state of equilibrium. Slowly,
I began to create my own opinions again and I even flirted with the popular new
age industry of the 70 s and even studied much of their literature.

 

Like many people today I felt that there was a void or vacuum in my life   but
what should I fill it with?

 

Religion is a byproduct of fear. For much of human history, it may have been a
                                necessary evil,

 but why was it more evil than necessary? Isn t killing people in the name of
                   God a pretty good definition of insanity?

                                        

                           Arthur C. Clarke, author

                                        

 

           NOTHING COULD HAVE SAVED ME FROM WHAT WAS TO HAPPEN NEXT 

 

I ll never forget that fateful day I went to a new age festival held just out
of town. I was mainly interested in just experiencing all the commotion,
sights, sounds and exotic smells. Here, I chanced upon a very charismatic and
highly educated medical researcher from one of Australia s top universities. He
had just returned from Japan wherein he had spent the past two years on a
government research grant studying the inner-most functioning of the human
brain. He was giving a lecture and I stopped to listen in. His credentials,
degrees, charisma and sincerity were impeccable and I was interested in what he
was saying. He claimed to have answers to many of my life s questions. He even
represented a new Japanese group intent on spreading this message and
accompanying therapies. Thirsty for answers, I eventually joined his group and
immediately felt a wonderful feeling of belonging. Finally, I had found a group
of like-minded truth seekers and so I began to attend all their seminars and
other activities.

 

My new-found charismatic leader soon became a good friend and before long I
smoothly slotted into the role of second-in-command of this rapidly growing
movement. Before long I too was traveling extensively throughout the
Asia-Pacific region conducting seminars teaching the new-found oriental truths
so eagerly accepted in the 70 s.  For many years I traveled throughout 
Australia, where I live, New Zealand, Japan, Singapore, Malaysia, New Guinea,
the Philippines, and more. I was truly run off my feet keeping up with demand
creating our new Empire of the Sun. I even spent one year straight in the
forests of Malaysia on the island of Borneo creating a regional headquarters as
membership in this area was now in the thousands. It was here that I earned the
title of White Witch Doctor. And what a Witch Doctor I was to become as I
delved deep into a mysterious world of spirits, spirit possession and omens.

 

                  Lighthouses are more helpful then churches.


      -Benjamin Franklin, American Founding Father, author, and inventor

 

Our group s dogma or product was a compilation of teachings on life after
death, reincarnation, spirits, spirit possession, the coming Armageddon and the
superiority of our product over all others. This was absolute and we were the 
Chosen Ones   the new and improved levites. We had the whole truth and only we
would be saved.

 

In all my misguided fervor I was too blind to see the same parallel absurdities
that I was once forced to take on board as a member of the catholic industry.
Like all companies cash was always in demand and we needed plenty to expand our
golden empire and here our members happily complied.

 

As my position and responsibility consolidated within the company I gradually
became privy to their innermost trade secrets during specially arranged visits
to the fatherland   Japan   the home of the gods. Here, amongst many things, I
learnt how the Japanese emperor was a divine being and was destined to rule the
world as in ancient times and how he had tried unsuccessfully to achieve global
supremacy during the second world war. I was also introduced to many of the
company s top brass and discovered how many of them were once high-ranking
military officers. I also learnt how Jesus had lived out his final years in 
Japan after escaping the crucifixion. They even took me to his grave in far
northern Japan. They showed me references to his escaping crucifixion  in the
Koran which explains why muslims don t believe Jesus died on the cross.  How
these two major religion industries, islam and christianity, could ever hope to
find any common ground or compatibility is beyond me. It wasn t just Jesus who
found his final resting place in the land of the gods, but according to secret
burial mound photos that I was shown, so too did Moses and Buddha as it was in
this sacred land that the long-sought-after ark of the covenant was secreted
away and is now in the possession of the emperor of Japan.

 

   I condemn false prophets, I condemn the effort to take away the power of
                              rational decision,

     to drain people of their free will and a hell of a lot of money in the
                                   bargain.


              Gene Roddenberry, Creator of Star Trek (1921-1991)

 

I guess by now you could be excused for thinking  why did I believe this
dangerous ultra-nationalism or superstition and didn t abandon this group and
simply run away ?

 

Well, it s not that simple. If you check out some the aforementioned links you
will discover that much of this superstition is not just some of the beliefs of
my group but are the current widespread beliefs of many Japanese people based
upon old myths. I wasn t exposed to these trade secrets till after I had been a
member for several years   till it was safe to do so   till I was so
brainwashed that I was prepared to believe and do anything. Underpinning these
beliefs was the constant fear of failure. If I were to fail in guiding my group
correctly to fulfill its mission of creating a global theocracy   global peace,
we would all be banished to hell forever (sounds familiar). If anyone was to
question any of the dogma it was a sign that they were possessed by evil
spirits as this invisible ghoulish army was opposed to our glorious mission.
The fate of humanity rested on our shoulders   and more so on mine.

 

Besides, this was now my well-paying elitist job. I was partly responsible for
the nurturing and guidance of thousands of members in the Australasian region.
It was now who I was, and it had taken fifteen years of hard work during the
most productive years of my life. My void had long-since been filled and to
suddenly negate everything was to negate myself.

 

How would you feel if you had been a faithful Ford person all your life and
suddenly and it was revealed that Ford cars were crap after all and that the
company was closing down? You would be very disappointed to say the least. It
is for this reason that my essay is aimed more so at the young before the
religion addiction has had time to take a firm hold.

 

 

                 Faith means not wanting to know what is true.

                                        

      Friedrich Nietzsche, German philologist and philosopher (1844-1900)

 

 

The process of indoctrination or brainwashing was more of a slow drip feed over
many years, which in turn, I passed onto members of the group. Superimposed
upon everything we did was the ever-present mission to save as many people as
we could and prepare them as seed people for the coming Armageddon. The seed
people would then start a new world order   a new theocracy. In all my fervor I
never thought to question who would rule over this theocracy until it was too
late as we were discouraged from asking any questions as we had been taught
questioning was a sure sign of spirit possession.

 

My aforementioned experiences within this group are presented only briefly here
as this essay is not meant to focus in-depth on any particular religion
company, including mine. Instead, I hope to encourage readers to see how
religion companies operate in expanding their numbers and maintaining
allegiance irrespective of how absurd, superstitious or dangerous their beliefs
may be by presenting my firsthand experiences.  For my total experience plus
more please obtain a copy of my e-book ALL THE EMPEROR S MEN

 

Without being aware of my warped thoughts and deeds I became a company
henchman, mullah, and firebrand preacher. I was convinced I was right   the
company had convinced me that the world needed saving, that only we had
possession of these new oriental esoteric truths and we needed to sell this
message, or product, to the world   and we did. Branches were set up throughout
our region whilst other regions did the same elsewhere. Globally there were
around a million members in its heyday. Our clients included politicians,
doctors, lawyers, teachers and even a few clergy from other religion companies.
We were an elitist company and we concentrated on quality thereby qualifying
ours as the most supreme of all   similar to what all religion companies
believe. We were well and truly in the race to see who could be the most
arrogant of all.

 

So, by now, you might be asking again how did I escape this guilt-ridden,
fear-based madness? Well, I m gradually getting to that by sharing with you the
depth of my involvement or degree of brainwashing. It took years to become what
I became so please bare with me a little longer as I explain further whilst
keeping in mind that these experiences are similar to what all religion
industries offer, only that their dogmas will vary.  I also hope it helps you
understand, at a deeper level, what goes on in the minds of the clergy
irrespective of the company they represent.

 

I know now how crazy it all was, but let s have a brief look at some of the
equally weird, unproven, un-scientific and superstitious beliefs of some of the
common religion companies. Please keep in mind that I do have some experience
of the catholic company. Remember, I was once forced to become a member in my
childhood and how I morphed from an easy-going, happy, naturally inquisitive
religion-free child to one racked with a great fear of eternal damnation, a
fear of god and an arrogance towards non-catholics.

 

Even as a reluctant catholic I eventually became to believe in the following:
the infallibility of the pope, Jesus was born as a result of an immaculate
conception, he could walk on water, turn water into wine, make dead people come
back to life, died on a cross and came back to life three days later plus so
much more. Some are believing that all of creation as we know it occurred a
mere 6,000 years ago! In my opinion these people would be better served by
joining the Flat Earth Society. 

 

I was taught that I was a sinful unworthy person destined for eternal damnation
but for Jesus dying on a cross and taking upon himself all my sins instead   I
could go on but you may be understanding my point. But if you need more ponder
a moment upon the absurd and arrogant belief that only catholics have the true
faith. This is something common to all religion companies. Even in the
afterlife they would all keep us apart by dividing cemeteries into the various
religions and denominations. If you don t believe your religion company to be
the best - the one specially chosen by god for you as being the absolute, then
why didn t you change to another? The reality is that very few people do. Some
religion companies prohibit changing or joining new ones   try becoming a jew,
for example. Males should be aware that a prerequisite for membership requires
having your penis mutilated as other religions do.  Try leaving islam. Be
careful as you could be murdered as the link clearly warns.

 

I am left wondering what kind of god, whom I was taught made humans perfect in
his image, would suddenly require his male subjects to chop some flesh off the
end of their penis'. And this is a god that prefers the circumcision to be
performed whilst still an infant or very young boys unable to make any informed
decisions about the fate of their foreskins. How is this religion custom
allowable in the eyes of any law?  And what are the origins of this wide-spread
practice? Below you will begin to see how it has its genesis in the ancient,
unproven and convenient Abrahamic covenants.

 

                                   [bible5]

 

  The Christian faith from the beginning, is sacrifice: the sacrifice of all
                                   freedom,

  all pride, all self-confidence of spirit; it is at the same time subjection,

                     a self-derision, and self-mutilation.

                                        

      Friedrich Nietzsche, German philologist and philosopher (1844-1900)

 

It all goes back to a point I made earlier that it s all a simple matter of
conditioning. A republican family will always be republican, a capitalist
society will always be capitalist and likewise a socialist society will always
remain so, with the default factor being the major player. What this also means
is that all our thinking regarding the major fundamentals of our existence have
all been carefully thought out for us. There is no need to ponder the
un-ponderables. All you have to do is follow and keep away from the
competitors. Just leave all this important stuff to those who profess to know
better. How absurd. How stupid. How lazy and dangerous. Just look at how this
ignorant and arrogant form of mass population control is disturbing and
threatening both regional and global peace all in the name of their gods,
yahwehs, jehovahs or allahs. 

 

I feel I speak with a certain degree of authority having lived as both a
non-religious person and a religion company leader when I say I can so easily
see the danger and underlying absurdity of this industry. It serves humankind
no good.

 

Now let me return to the question of how I managed to take back control of my
thoughts, beliefs and life after almost fifteen years as a top-ranking religion
company leader. You may remember some of the beliefs I had taken onboard were
equally as absurd, unscientific, dangerous and just plain stupid as those you
will find in almost any religion company. Regardless of the efforts of my
family and fiends to make me see reason I refused to listen. I was one of god s
chosen ones. I was entrusted with the highest truths, and that was absolute. I
was even afforded special protection like all our members so as we could
perform our sacred duties of saving the world. Who, in their right mind, would
want to give all that up? How arrogant, dangerous   and common to all religion
companies.

 

   Religions vary in their degree of idiocy, but I reject them all. For most
                                    people,

     religion is nothing more than a substitute for a malfunctioning brain.

                                        

              Gene Roddenberry, Creator of Star Trek (1921-1991)

                                        

 

                      HOW I ESCAPED THE RELIGION INDUSTRY

                                        

For the second time in just a few years another car carrying five of our most
promising and protected seed people had all been killed instantly in an
horrific accident after leaving our center. That now made it a total of ten
killed in similar accidents on their way home in just a few short years. Again
the police asked me to help identify the bodies and as I struggled to figure
out who was who I found myself wondering exactly what kind of god I was
serving, for weren t we all its chosen ones as promised by our guru? I couldn t
help notice the blood-smeared sacred prayer books as I struggled to determine
whose prayer books belonged to who. It was awful and still I can hardly bring
myself to recount the events for you here.

 

A crack had begun to form in my arrogant armor plating and I now struggled to
contain it. I decided to take some time off to mourn and reflect upon the whole
tragic event. During this time I decided to travel back to Japan, the source,
and a country I had come to love. By chance, whilst there alone, I encountered
kind people who seemed eager to share a very different view of my group and its
origins. Through a series of meetings with both ex-members and others I was
presented with documentary evidence showing that my guru was a high-ranking
militarist during the Second World War and played an instrumental role in the
infamous Rape of Nanjing  in China wherein 30,000 women were systematically
raped then murdered and 300,000 surrendered Chinese troops murdered. I also
learned that he was a personal friend of the Japanese emperor s brother. He was
his class mate at the elitist military academy wherein my guru also became a
military instructor. He also became Emperor Hirohito s personal bodyguard. He
also owned a military aircraft factory.

 

It seems that most of the group s top-brass were classmates at the same
military academy, and one in particular, Mr Kiyoharu Tomomori, my guru s
personal advisor, life-long friend, founding member, second in command and
confidante was a convicted war criminal. He earned his death sentence for his
personal involvement in the torture and beheading of 33 air crew of downed U.S.
aircraft. This was several days after Japan had surrendered to the U.S. This
mass murderer later managed a re-trial and received a life sentence, but like
all convicted Japanese war criminals was set free in 1958. I met him on a few
occasions.  

 

I also learned how, at the military academy at that time, recruits studied the
notorious manuscript  The Protocols of The Elders of Zion    a supposedly
jewish manuscript detailing a cunning blueprint for jewish world domination.
And finally to my even greater horror, after studying this vile manuscript
myself, I realized that our most sacred texts, said to be the word of god,
contained many passages distilled from the  Protocols of Zion . Some sections
of this manuscript had even been lifted word for word into our divine texts.
Another notorious world figure who once did this was Adolf Hitler when he wrote
his Nazi bible   Mein Kampf.

 

 

 In many instances they have been upholding the thrones of political tyranny.

  In no instance have they been seen as the guardians of the liberties of the
                                    people.

    Rulers who wished to subvert the public liberty have found in the clergy
                            convenient auxiliaries.

                                        

      James Madison, American president and political theorist (1751-1836)

                                        

 

I was mortified and I was of there.

 

So those are the main facts and events that it took to shock me back into
reality. Gradually I regained my ability to look at my group objectively for
the first time and I was repulsed at what I saw. Understandably, I now look at
all religions, ideologies and isms from an objective viewpoint and not one of:
hoping it s true, wishful thinking, blind faith or from a strong desire to
simply belong.

 

Admittedly, mine was a rare and extreme experience and one that most will never
experience, but this also means most followers of religion simply stay put
within their cozy, blind faith religion company. I also hope that others will
not have to experience what I did and this is why I feel so compelled to share
my experience and awakening with you.

 

Over the following months and years I documented my findings in the form of my
e-book, All The Emperor s Men, plus several other related published articles. I
shared my story in the media, via TV, radio, magazines and newspapers. As
expected, I received a mixed response ranging from threats, verbal and written
abuse to many more calls, letters and emails of support and gratitude from
people who had also managed to escape the group and other religion companies. A
recent Wikipedia  entry claims that because of my efforts in exposing the group
over half its western members have now deserted it although membership
continues to grow in Japan and some poor developing countries.  

 

When I finally made the big escape I was also concerned with filling the void
in my life which my group had filled for all those years. I didn t have to
worry over this for too long since the vacuum caused by my escape gradually
became filled with my efforts and enthusiasm to alert everyone to the dangers
of this group and to urge all seekers   those with a void in their lives, and
those caught within the religion industry to stand back and take a good
objective look at themselves and their religion company. Research its origins  
is it based upon provable, documented and tangible facts and not upon ancient
fables or folk lore, or simply because someone says it s true.  Blind faith is
a copout and never permissible. Check out its real aims, who are its leaders
and where do its teachings come from. Claiming divine revelations is a sure
giveaway and a sign of ultimate arrogance. If you were going to invest money in
a company any sensible person would obtain corporate documentation and an
accountant s report first, so if you are going to invest your time, money and
soul in a religion company doesn t it make sense to do likewise? Is it selling
a worthwhile product worthy of filling that void or could that void be filled
with something better?

 

 

                       SO NOW WHAT SHOULD I BELIEVE IN?

                                        

This would be the best of all possible worlds, if there were no religion in it.

                                        

       John Adams, U.S. President, Founding Father of the United States

 

At the beginning of this essay I stated how I was open to the belief in god. I
am not an atheist. I believe in a good life and a good life after death just as
the famous Michelangelo stated: If life was found to be agreeable, then so
should death be. It comes from the hand of the same master.  But I am against
the religion industry hijacking and stifling spiritual progress as this is what
they do. This is a great disgrace and the greatest blight of all. Observe the
turmoil in the Middle East. The religious and sectarian hatred amongst
neighboring countries is now so deadly and out of control it s threatening to
escalate into a much broader conflict and nuclear weaponry could soon be
utilized.  We are witnessing arrogance so blind it sees only its self interest
at the expense of everyone else. It s the ultimate religion company insanity  
it s simply religion gone mad. 

 

At the heart of this deadly game is a 4,000 year old highly disputed fable
concerning a 170 years old man named Abraham from the land now known as Iraq.  
The fable relates how a god made a covenant with this mysterious person whereby
the god said to Abraham that he and his descendants could have ownership over
the land of Palestine as they are his chosen or favorite people. No deeds of
ownership or any proof of this secret deal have ever been forthcoming and today
the jews recklessly use this ancient 4,000 year old fable as giving legitimacy
to their illegal occupation. How convenient, and soon we may all have to pay a
heavy price for an ancient myth which has somehow found its way into today s
world as some kind of official authority for land ownership and genocide.

 

Recently on ABC-TV (April 9, 2012), during a religious panel debate, I was
surprised to hear one of the panelists, Cardinal George Pell, the popes
representative here in Australia, admit unambiguously when questioned, that
Adam and Eve and the Garden of Eden, etc, is all a myth (google it). He further
admitted that humans probably evolved from Neanderthals. As a child I was
taught that it was god who created us in his image.

 

According to Cardinal Pell, these infallible biblical stories are no more than
myths. So, if there never was an Adam or an Eve, the originators of our
original sin, I assume there never was or is such a thing as original sin which
conveniently serves as the master thread that binds the judeo-christian
religions, their sects and their followers together. All along it has been a
man made construct. These now-busted myths suddenly make the crucifiction of
Jesus unnecessary since we now learn that there never was original sin in the
first place: the very reason why Jesus died on the cross to save us from it.
How liberating!

 

Earlier, I mentioned how the state of Israel was also founded upon a dubious
biblical tale which, in their eyes, justifies their supremacy and occupation of
Palestine. Since the Adam and Eve story and the human creation story have now
been confirmed as myths we should also assume the jewish-Israeli justifications
also have their genesis in fanciful and self-serving myths. And shouldn't we
also view that cunning jewish construct, the omniscient, vindictive and
almighty judeo-christian concept of god as simply another self-serving myth,
too?

 

Eventually, we must all come to realise that the religion industry if founded
solely upon the creation and sale of myths - and what convenient myths they
have proven to be. 

          

There will be no peace in the Middle East until the jews and others involved
abandon their myth-based beliefs.

 

Similar to the above absurdity is Japan s belief in being the cradle of
humankind with its emperor still acknowledged as a divine being reigning over a
divine or special people. Based upon ancient Japanese folk lore, Mt Fuji is
described as the naval of the world   the most sacred place. The imperial seal
of the emperor and the symbol of Japan is the sixteen pedaled chrysanthemum
which symbolizes the sixteen different compass points which the ancient
Japanese emperor sent his children into order to civilize the planet. The catch
cry of the Japanese military during the 30 s and 40 s was  All the world under
one roof - meaning all the world ruled by a Japanese theocracy under emperor
Hirohito.  And they nearly succeeded if it wasn t for the U.S. dropping nuclear
bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Such extreme and horrendous action was
required to distract the ruling elite and its militarists from such a deadly
belief. The group I helped lead for fifteen years, and other sections of the
Japanese population, still promote these deadly myth-based beliefs and more.
The All the world under one roof war cry was ultimately responsible for the
deaths of untold millions.   

 

It s the responsibility of each and every one of us to make our own efforts to
live as harmonious as possible according to our situation and strive to expand
our own concepts of the wonders of the cosmos. It s one of the purposes for
being here   to ponder, study, to feel awe, postulate and to share our ideas
and understandings. This is not the responsibility of some rabbi, mullah, guru
or preacher who claims he has it all figured out for you. It s for you to
discover. This is what the cosmos expects of you just as it also expected of
you to feed and nourish you body, you must also toil to nourish your soul
likewise. The cosmos and all its wonders are waiting for you. Fill your void
with what the cosmos wants to give you directly according to your efforts. How
can you have a void if it s being filled to overflowing with such abundance?

 

 At present there is not a single credible established religion in the world.


        George Bernard Shaw, Irish-born English playwright (1856-1950)

 

Do spirits, life after death and reincarnation etc, exist? Probably, but you
must go and discover these possibilities. This brief essay is not about my
spiritual beliefs, it s about my religion industry experiences. Nowadays,
modern scientific research, together with proven and well-documented
experiences are revealing all these possibilities and more. Scientists are
postulating the existence of parallel universes, life on other planets and even
a god particle. The Earth is no longer flat. Get on board and discover how it s
all unfolding. How can you have a void if you are on a path of such discovery?
Realize that when that void has gone so too will the demand   and when the
demand fades so too will the service providers   the religion purveyors.

 

I am aware that some readers will see my repetitive use of the phrases religion
industry and religion company as somewhat provocative, but if you take time to
examine their purposes, structures and aims as I have, you will come to see
them as simply service providers creating and selling myths and at best, simple
placebos. We have the void and they fill it with a variety of products   a
simple case of supply and demand, and a very profitable tax exempt industry at
that.

 

I ve come to the awakening that you don t even have to have any beliefs   isn t
it better to have a wholesome and inquisitive mind ever seeking that next piece
of the cosmic jigsaw   forever seeking higher possibilities? There is a danger
that beliefs can hold you to a specific point in time or in the distant past,
but possibilities stretch on to eternity.

 

    Millions of innocent men, women and children, since the introduction of
                        Christianity, have been burnt,

   tortured, fined and imprisoned; yet we have not advanced one inch towards
                                  uniformity.

                   Thomas Jefferson, Notes on Virginia, 1782

                                        

      All The Emperor's Men - an Ebook by Garry Greenwood Available HERE

                                        

         The New Commandments by Garry Greenwood. Test Drive Them HERE



                   Mad Men, Fukushima and More Mad Men HERE

                                        

       Anti-Religion Quotes From Some Of The World's Greatest Minds HERE

                                        

Join The TRUTH Revolution And Make A Link To This Page Or Email The Essay To A
                                    Friend.

                                        

   Please feel free to circulate and freely distribute any of my essays and
     articles on Facebook, Twitter and Youtube, etc, as well as on related
                       newsgroups, forums and websites.

                                        

Garry Greenwood 

 

Copyright 2012. 

 

 

 

 

