Jump to Navigation

  • Follow @SecularStudents
  • 
  • Home
  • Donate
  • Contact
  • Log In

Search form

Search [               ]
[Search]
Home

[secularstudents_headerphotos1_b]

Main menu

  • About SSA
      □ Board of Directors
      □ Staff
      □ History
      □ Bylaws & Policies
      □ Partner Organizations
  • For Students
      □ Our Affiliates
          ☆ Affiliate Your Group
          ☆ Start a Group
              ○ Request a Group Starting Packet
              ○ List of Groups Starting
              ○ Group Starting Library
          ☆ Secular Legal Society
          ☆ Affiliation Renewal
      □ Resources for Affiliates
          ☆ Hands-on Help
              ○ Contact a Campus Organizer
              ○ Branded Affiliates
              ○ Campus Organizers
          ☆ Group Services
              ○ Project Grants
              ○ Speakers Bureau
              ○ Business Cards
              ○ Email and Web Forwards
              ○ SSA Awards
              ○ Tabling Supplies
          ☆ Group Resources
              ○ Group Running Guide
              ○ "This Week" News
              ○ Activity Packets
              ○ Facebook LeaderSpace
              ○ Design Exchange
              ○ Group Running Library
              ○ Media Relations
          ☆ Leadership Events
              ○ Annual Conference
              ○ SSA YouTube Channel
          ☆ Funding Finder
          ☆ Brag It Up!
          ☆ Student Memberships for your Group
          ☆ Update Group Leadership Listings
      □ Resources for Individuals
      □ Resources for High School Students
      □ Student SSA Membership
      □ SSA Store
  • For Alumni
      □ Become an Alumni Member
      □ Get Involved
  • For Educators
      □ Request Materials for your School
      □ Resources for Advisors
      □ Start a Group
      □ Legal Assistance
      □ Secular Safe Zone
  • For Everyone
      □ Become a Member
      □ Donate
      □ Monthly Giving
      □ Legacy Giving
      □ Our Work
      □ Other Ways to Support
      □ FAQ
  • Donate
      □ Donate Monthly

[ssacon2016-splash-01-1]
[buscards_b]

This Week Home                     Reflection Guide  Darwin Day  Protest Signs

Protection for Valentine’s Day and Street Preachers :: This Week

Share/Save

[This-Week-]​

​[2016]​

Event reflection exercises are meant to create meaning for whatever special
event you just had. These are the things that happen outside your normal group
meetings, like large social gatherings, advocacy engagements, service projects,
or even educational seminars. Our reflection guide will teach you about how to
run Pre-Event and Post-Event reflection exercises, and features 11 major SSA
events. The information in this guide is based off scholarship regarding the
importance of reflection, research from sociologist Lori Fazzino, and the
advice of noted speakers Raymond Arnold, Bart Campolo, and Andrew Norman.

[More-Info-]​

[2016]

Whether you celebrate Lupercalia for cleansing and fertility, or Geoffrey
Chaucer’s romanticized Valentine’s Day, make sure you do it safely! Holding a
condom distribution on your campus the week of February 14 can be used to
educate the student body on important issues of sexual ethics, disease
prevention, and public health, and also offers an opportunity for the group to
give back to the community. If you have never run a condom distribution before,
our downloadable resource provides some useful tips, tricks, and advice to help
you plan, and successfully run, the activity.

[More-Info-]​

[gordon1_0]

Street preachers got you down? Is there a message being loudly shouted on your
campus and you're just not feeling it? Consider a counter protest! Nothing
brings more immediate attention to your group quite like loudly telling other
people that their message doesn't resonate with you. Look at our protest sign
resource that pulls from the most successful SSA counter-protests stories to
make your voice heard!

[More-Info-]​

[Group-Prid]

[2016]

​Secular Student Alliance at Sam Houston State University!!

"Bringing speakers like Darrel Ray to the conservative and religious area
around my college feels important.Even if someone just sees the flyer it brings
attention to that fact that there are other opinions and ideas out there, which
many students forget."

London Sneden, President

Darrel Ray gave a presentation to the SSA At Sam Houston on the evolution of
sex organs to highlight that sexuality is natural. He also discussed the
negative and often shameful effects of religion on human sexuality. The SSA
helped the group get him there by covering gas and hotel with a Speakers Bureau
Grant, which saved the group from digging into their own funds. This was the
group’s first guest speaker, and they got over 40 audience members to attend,
some of which came from the local Universal Unitarian church. Not only did they
get to have dinner with Darrel afterward, but the event gained them a new
member!

  • Read more about Protection for Valentine’s Day and Street Preachers :: This
    Week

Submitted by pete.zupan on Fri, 01/15/2016 - 13:53

This Week :: 32 Days Left

Share/Save

[This-Week-]​

​[ddsupplies]

Darwin Day is February 12, giving you 32 days left to plan! Have you ordered
your Darwin Day tabling supplies yet? We offer free stickers, brochures, and
posters for our affiliates, but you have to request them. Supplies take about a
week to arrive, so the sooner you place your order, the better!

[skepticism]

Homeopathy, anti-vaccination, chemtrails, astrology: if you know what those
things are, you also know that they are problematic beliefs prevalent in our
society. If you didn't, there is a chance members of your group don't know
about them either. Mix your meetings up with some skepticism by delving into
the paranormal, supernatural, and pseudoscientific.

[pete1]

There's lots of reasons to tell us about your group's accomplishments through
submitting a Brag It Up! There's the free swag and chance to be featured in our
social media, plus knowing that your actions may inspire present and future
leaders to do the same activities. But the most prestigious benefit is the
chance to earn an Award for Outstanding Activism! These awards go to groups
that exemplify the Secular Student Alliance's mission, vision, and values in
either their service, activism, or community outreach.

[Group-Prid]

[utaustin1]

​Secular Student Alliance at the University of Texas at Austin!

"The relationship between your group and religious groups need not and should
not be adversarial or filled with distrust. Establish yourselves well in the
community and maintain relationships with religious people. They will either be
your greatest enemies or your greatest allies."

Brian Lisco, President

​The SSA at UT Austin has been holding social events with a Christian student
group called Longhorns for Christ in order to gain some visibility and also to
expose members of the two groups to each other in an informal setting. The last
social they had was an atheists vs. theists soccer match! They combined it with
a visit by the SSA of the University of Texas at San Antonio and had about
twenty atheists show up in total. This was compared about seven theists, who
laughed with them about finally being in the minority. They ended up playing
simultaneous games of soccer and Ultimate Frisbee, each with mixed teams of
theists and atheists. All groups agreed that it was nice to speak casually to
each other without discussing the merits of the two worldviews, and they all
had a great time.

  • Read more about This Week :: 32 Days Left

Submitted by pete.zupan on Tue, 01/05/2016 - 16:03

Graduating group leader David Gormley explains why we do what we do

Share/Save

David Gormley, who has been in the leadership of our affiliate at the
University of North Georgia for many years, wrote a farewell address for his
last meeting with the group. It is refreshing to see one of our leaders reflect
on their time with an affiliate so positively, and share it with the
membership. The whole document is below, but we wanted to share a small
excerpt:

    I've been humbled and honored to have been able to lead that charge as
    President for two years... Skeptics' for me has truly been a life changing
    experience as I've found myself gaining some of my best friends through
    this group and watched my own opinions grow and shift through the discourse
    we've had with people of all different opinions and belief systems. Not
    only has this group served as a method of relief from stress and a group
    therapy on some occasions, but it has also become what I'd consider to be
    my family. 

    Skeptics' Society finds itself in the unique position of having the ability
    to foster friendship and camaraderie between people of different faiths,
    political systems, economic policies, backgrounds, and many other
    categories and that's not something found a lot in this world, much less
    North Georgia...That's why I consider Skeptics' to be of such great
    importance to the school. We need – in every sense of the word need – a
    group to challenge the status quo and to force, on some level, people to
    constantly seek new evidence and reevaluate their ingrained positions and
    ideals on life. 

Wow. This is why the Secular Student Alliance does this kind of work. We look
forward to seeing the future work of UNG Skeptics' Society, and wish David
Gormley the best. 

  • Read more about Graduating group leader David Gormley explains why we do
    what we do

Submitted by KelleyFreeman on Wed, 12/30/2015 - 15:11

This Week :: Starting up the New Year right

Share/Save

ThisWeek

Item                       Item                       Item

If you think that spring   Martin Luther King Jr.     Nick says:
semester is mostly         Day of Service is January
uneventful, you'd be       18 this year. Most people  Some of you reading this
wrong. In fact, some of    take this federal holiday  might be old leaders, but
the biggest secular        off, but some              don't unsubscribe yet!
events happen during       extraordinary people use   This Week emails are how
spring, so it's important  this day of remembrance    we reach out to group
that you restock your      to make the world a        leaders about resources
tabling supplies to        better place. Most         and services that we
promote them!              campuses have a school     offer, so it's important
                           sponsored activity going   that someone in the group
Whether it's MLK Day,      on, and we encourage your  get them.
Darwin Day, or Ask an      group to participate.
Atheist Day, tabling is                               If you are an old leader,
one of the most effective  We also hope that you      please fill out a
forms of promotion a       will use MLK Day as a      Leadership Update with us
group can do. As a         chance to reach out to     before removing yourself
service to our groups, we  your Black student union   from this list. This
send out brochures,        about doing that service   automatically updates our
stickers, and other        event together. It's       systems so that the right
tabling goodies free of    often harder for Black     people get these emails.
charge! We even have       people to be openly
fancy SSA banners for our  secular because of how     Click my face to update
branded affiliates! The    ingrained religion is      your group's leader
only thing you have to do  with Black communities.    contact information!
is request these items     This is an excellent
using our ordering form,   opportunity to build       [nicksaystw]
and we'll get it out to    connections and dispel
you as soon as we can.     myths about the secular
                           worldview while doing
[moreinfo_0]               good in your community.

                           [moreinfo_0]

We're proud of Lakeridge Secular Alliance!            [con-button]

[2015]                                                ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                                      
"It's amazing to represent secular students and       [brag-it-tw]
bring them support, but even better when in doing so
we can also help others in need by doing things like  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
volunteering at the Food Bank."                       
                                                      [untitled-3]
Ethan Kirkham, President

Five members of LSA, including their adviser,
volunteered at the Oregon Food Bank to sort damaged
but still usable foods into Healthy and Supplemental
categories. This was their first volunteer activity
as a group, and provided a fun opportunity for
members to do good work during Winter Break and
spend time together as friends. They worked so
efficiently that they were able to complete their
work an hour early!

                         Facebook twitter youtube Instagram

  • Read more about This Week :: Starting up the New Year right

Submitted by pete.zupan on Tue, 12/29/2015 - 11:03

Pages

  • 1
  • 2
  • 3
  • 4
  • 5
  • 6
  • 7
  • 8
  • 9
  • …
  • next ›
  • last »

Subscribe to Secular Student Alliance RSS

 
[startgroup]
 
 

Sign up for our mailing list!




Email
*
[               ]
First Name
[               ]
Last Name
[               ]

[Save]

Tweets by @SecularStudents

                  Facebook! Twitter! YouTube! Guidestar Gold

About | Contact | Privacy Policy
Copyright (C) 2000 - 2015 Secular Student Alliance. All rights reserved.

Powered by Drupal
