Skip to content
Open Menu

  • Home
  • About
  • That’s Showing Them, God
  • The Power of Prayer

Search
Search for: [Search]
Close

atheiblog

Comments on today's world from the viewpoint of an atheist

Welcome to the Atheiblog

May 22, 2015June 10, 2015 atheiblogLeave a comment

My name is Daniel, and on this blog I am posting my thoughts on God, religion,
and their effects on today’s world, as they are seen by someone — myself —
whose belief in supernatural, mystical, or divine beings evaporated long
ago. The posts will most often be in the form of reactions to current events as
reported in the news media.

I have a website, separate from this blog, on which I have posted a book I have
written, The Book of Daniel: Testimony of An Atheist, which can be found at
http://www.bookdaniel.net. The categories under which I’ve posted entries on
this blog are based on chapters of the book. I hope you will find the book
worth a look.

The Tenacity of Belief

January 14, 2016 atheiblogLeave a comment

Bringing up the subject of the Powerball Lottery doesn’t sound out of place in
a blog about God and religion, but I will take the subject in a direction
probably different from expected.

In my book, The Book of Daniel: Testimony of an Atheist, I start with a chapter
on Belief, in an effort to work towards an answer to the question, “Why do so
many people believe in God?” (I get to that specific question in chapter 3.) My
basic assertion is that people believe what they want to believe, and will
stand by those beliefs for as long as they want to believe them, regardless of
any amount of pressure or evidence to the contrary.

Recently Chris Cuomo, one of the anchors on CNN New Day, provided an absolutely
perfect example of that: He believed something he wanted to believe, and passed
it along to viewers so that they would be amazed by it (in the belief that
viewers would attach just as much credence to his belief as he did himself),
and he held onto his belief despite being corrected, on the air, by his
incredulous co-anchor, Michaela Pereira.

The story is here, on the website of Esquire Magazine. To summarize:

The Powerball Lottery jackpot prize, at the time of the broadcast, had risen to
$1.3 billion: that amount of prize money would be awarded to the lucky persons
(perhaps a single person) with the winning numbers. At that point, a meme
appeared on Facebook, and was immediately passed around from user to user,
whose creator claimed (through spectacularly faulty math) that if that $1.3
billion were divided up among the entire population of men, women, and children
in the United States, each would receive $4,333,000. The meme’s author
proclaimed “Poverty solved!!”

In reality, the amount would be $4.33.

Now, it is worth noting that there is no reason to suspect Chris Cuomo is an
idiot. (Though I know there are many people who would disagree with me on
that.) He is the son of a former governor of New York and brother of the
current governor, and his own academic accomplishments include a Juris Doctor
degree from Fordham University.

Yet Cuomo wanted to believe the meme. It would be so wonderful if it were true!
And so he accomodated it within his personal belief system, and resolved to
spread the great news. Said Cuomo, to a worldwide CNN audience: “I saw somebody
do a little bit of math, and if you were to take that amount of money and
divide it among all the American people, let alone families, each would have a
few million dollars and it would completely correct the course of history.”

Cuomo’s efforts to retain this belief go beyond just Pereira’s attempt to
straighten him out (see the video on the Esquire webpage); he even resisted, or
tuned out, any internal cognitive dissonance that should have led him to
question it. Cuomo knows that the U.S. government throws around money in the
billions of dollars as if it were confetti — to the government, an amount such
as $1.3 billion is so small as to pale into insignificance in line after line
in the federal budget. Amounts like that are kept in the petty cash drawer. So
why, Cuomo should have wondered, doesn’t the government take some of that petty
cash and distribute it among the American people and make them all
millionaires? Why hasn’t some presidential candidate promised to do exactly
that? And indeed, where did that money all come from? How did the government
get it, given that we haven’t all paid millions upon millions of dollars each
in taxes?

So there are millions of ways Cuomo could have stopped himself and said, Wait,
these numbers aren’t making sense. Yet he never did. So powerful was his will
to believe the erroneous mathematics of a numerically-challenged Facebook user
that his belief was never shaken by any rational thoughts about it.

Is there any need to wonder any longer why the grip of religion on human minds
is so powerful, despite any number of lines of inquiry that could lead a
believer to think, “Wait, this doesn’t make sense”?

(See my full blog at atheiblog.com.)

A Nativity Puzzle

December 25, 2015 atheiblogLeave a comment

Here’s something that I can’t recall hearing or reading anyone mention or
ponder over, about the Gospel stories of the birth of Jesus. Of course, maybe
someone has brought up this point and I’ve missed it.

The Nativity stories appear in the books of Matthew and Luke, with different
details, but making a similar point: That the birth of Jesus did not go
unnoticed, and there was quite a lot of excitement attending the arrival of the
Promised One.

Like almost all other biographical details of Jesus’ life, the Nativity story
(in its different versions) was cooked up in such a way as to satisfy
scriptural prophesies that had been taken to describe the life of the Christ
(in many cases there is no real indication within context that the Christ is
what those prophesies were actually talking about).

In Matthew’s account, a group of wise men (many people take it that there were
three of them, probably based on the fact they bestowed three different gifts
on the Christ child) were alerted to the birth of a “king of the Jews” by the
appearance of a new star. After a side trip to tell King Herod the great news
(as if the “wise” men thought Herod would be thrilled by it — predictably, he
wasn’t), the wise men followed the star until it stopped over a stable in
Bethlehem, wherein Jesus lay. They celebrated a bit, gave the gifts, and
returned home, avoiding returning to Herod to reveal the child’s location
because a dream had told them not to. (Even their dreams were smarter than they
were.)

In Luke’s story, a group of shepherds was alerted by a glorious angel, soon
joined by more angels, to the birth of “the Savior, the Messiah, the Lord.” The
shepherds went to Bethlehem, saw Jesus, were thrilled, and “spread the word” to
everyone about the event, all of whom were “amazed.”

So the world knew instantly, at the time of his birth, that a “king of Jews”
(Matthew), “Messiah and Savior” (Luke) had arrived in the world, the wise men
told Herod about it (who instituted a mass killing of babies just to be safe),
the shepherds told everyone they met, who all believed them, so both Matthew
and Luke make a point of the huge news it was that this child had been born.
Luke has the baby Jesus getting even more instant attention: when Joseph and
Mary took Jesus into Jerusalem for the traditional purification rites, a man
named Simeon made a big fuss over him, recognizing him at once as the savior
who would do long-promised things, and then an old woman named Anna reacted
similarly and (like the shepherds) began spreading the word to “all who were
looking forward to the redemption of Jerusalem.”

And then…

Everybody totally forgot. This incredibly important news just slipped
everybody’s minds, for years. At age twelve, Jesus slipped away from Mom and
Dad and held forth in the temple courts in Jerusalem, interpreting scripture
and answering questions, amazing everyone, and nobody remembered the kid all of
that stuff had been said about, in that same temple, twelve years earlier.
Nobody had kept track of him, despite all the exciting news about him that the
shepherds and Anna had spread far and wide.

And then another decade (or more) went by, and nobody seems to have recalled
that incident (not even Matthew), and Jesus had to introduce himself to the
world all over again (with help from John the Baptist) as a humble carpenter
and itinerant teacher.

It all happened in that one tiny geographic area, a wonderful birth of an
important king/savior/Messiah that was signaled by celestial fireworks and
hosts of angels, and the news spread all around from various witnessing
sources, and then the witnesses and the people they told all went back to
herding sheep, building outhouses, growing grain, or being wise, with no memory
of any of this, as an entire generation passed before Jesus began his ministry.

Obviously one can’t argue that (for whatever reason) God made them all forget,
because if you don’t want people remembering an event, you don’t start by
putting on a spectacular show with trumpeting angels and a supernova in the
sky.

It is all very odd.

(See my full blog at atheiblog.com.)

Admitting Syrian Refugees

November 27, 2015 atheiblogLeave a comment

A lot has been said about Islamophobia. The word is one of many with the suffix
“-phobia” in which the meaning of phobia has changed. Rather than “fear,” the
suffix “-phobia” now more often means a dislike or prejudice. The Oxford
Dictionary defines “Islamophobia” as “dislike of or prejudice against Islam or
Muslims, especially as a political force.” Notice the absence of the word
“fear” altogether. (A similar thing occurs in the usage of the word
“homophobia.”)

But I want to focus for now on the word phobia in its proper meaning: A
paralyzing fear that overrides rational thought and normal behavior. There is,
following the terror attacks in Paris of November 13, a renewed gush of phobia
in exactly this sense, relative to Islam and Muslims.

I want to start by saying: Nothing in what I am going to say here should in any
way be taken as a defense of the Paris attacks, a defense of any of the
terrorists involved, or a defense of Islam in general. (And why would I even do
that, as an atheist?) They were the work of madmen inspired by the psychopath
who leads ISIS, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, and the world will be far better off when
he and his organization are dead.

Be that as it may:

The purpose of terrorism is (as the word “terror” suggests) inspiring such fear
in one’s enemies as to compromise their ability to resist. At the very least,
terrorism is intended to change the behavior of the enemy by creating a fear
that affects every decision they make. In this, ISIS has already been
completely successful.

The latest manifestation of the ISIS-created phobia is the response of Western
nations to the wave of refugees from Syria: millions of desperate, innocent
people, most of them women and children, who saw their entire society implode
in an uncontrolled spasm of violence, facing them with a choice between leaving
or dying. Many people in Europe and the United States were already resistant to
accepting the refugees as immigrants before the attacks in Paris, but since
that event, the resistance has exploded in response to — let me quote myself
from above — a phobia [of Muslims] that affects every decision made by the
sufferers of the phobia.

The loss of the ability to think rationally has, in particular, compromised the
ability to (1) think through propositions to the logical conclusion and (2) see
the obvious consequences of implementing those propositions. ((1) and (2) are
not quite the same thing, though related, of course.)

The argument presented against admitting refugees from the Syrian civil war
rests on the idea that, among the refugees, there may be radical Muslims intent
on gaining entry to the country (U.S., Germany, England, whatever) for the
purpose of staging terror attacks.

It’s not possible to disprove the argument, but it is this argument that I am
referring to in saying people are not following their thoughts to a logical
conclusion.

The argument rests on the dubious premise that if terrorists are denied
admittance to a country, they will simply say, “Damn, that didn’t work. I’m
stumped. Can’t get in.” But the existence of a wide array of methods of
entering a country means that, if denied entry as refugees, terrorists will
just do it another way. The idea that one can stop terrorists, any terrorists,
from entering the country by not letting refugees in is ridiculous. If they
want to be here, then they will be here, regardless of how many refugees are
allowed entry. It is not only false that denying entry to radicals intent on
terrorist acts will prevent some terrorists from entering; the fact is that it
will not prevent any of them from entering.

Focusing on the U.S. in particular, there are many ways of gaining entry, other
than declaring refugee status. It has always been the case that citizens of
other countries could obtain a visa permitting them to enter the U.S. for a
variety of reasons, including purely tourism. Foreign citizens can also enter
with the stated intention (or at least goal) of establishing permanent
residence. So if the priority, in deciding whether to admit refugees, is to
prevent entry by terrorists, then it is necessary to seal off all methods of
entry: not just admission of refugees, but all admission of foreign citizens by
any means at all. When you are trying to seal off a room that has three doors,
locking one of them accomplishes nothing. It doesn’t even keep out one-third of
the people who want to enter. It doesn’t keep out any. Everyone who wants in
will just use one of the other doors.

I can imagine many people (Republicans, mainly) who will respond, “Okay then,
we’ll lock all the doors. I like that idea. No immigration. No foreign
visitors. Wall off the U.S. completely.”

From everyone? All citizens of every country?

No, these people will say. Just from the scary ones. The Muslim countries. No
problem with admitting people from England, say, or France.

No problem with France? Some of the Paris attackers were born in France.

Okay, then, these people will say, we should keep out people with Arabic names.
Or Farsi. Or Pakistani. Anything that sounds Muslim.

Anybody remember the name of the Shoebomber, the man who tried and failed to
take down a plane with hundreds of passengers by setting off a bomb hidden in
his shoe? Since the Paris attacks I’ve heard several mentions of The
Shoebomber, the name by which everyone remembers him. I don’t think I’ve heard
his actual name mentioned, and many people, by this time, may be unable to
recall it. They probably would guess it was Mohammad Akbar, or something
similar. The Shoebomber’s name was Richard Reid, and he was a British citizen.
So no, you can’t keep out terrorists just by profiling immigrants or visitors
by their names or country of origin.

Presidential candidate Ted Cruz had what he thought (or pretended to think) was
a sure-fire way to protect us from terrorists among the refugees, which could,
I suppose, be applied to all foreigners seeking entry: the admission of
refugees, Cruz said, should be limited to Christians. How, he was asked, would
it be determined which ones were Christians? (Never mind that the idea is
unconstitutional on its face.) Just ask them, said Cruz. How would we know they
were telling the truth, Cruz was asked? Cruz explained, with the air of someone
stating the obvious to the ignorant, that there is no history of any radical
Muslims claiming to be Christians when they entered the U.S. (No need to
provide a link. You can find this statement in hundreds of places. Google “Ted
Cruz refugees Christian no history”.)

My jaw dropped open in amazement, when I heard that, at the stupidity of the
idea that Muslims would never try to pose as Christians on entering the country
because they have never done it before. Of course they have never done it
before, Ted. They have never before had any reason to do so, never had anything
to gain by doing so. You are proposing to give them a reason to do so, for the
first time ever, and for reasons unknown you are sure none of them will. From a
man legendary for saying breathtakingly crazy things, I think this set a
record.

Among all of the politicians (presidential candidates, state governors, etc.)
who oppose admitting refugees because some might be terrorists, what I want to
see them do is think through to the logical consequences of their position and
state that they oppose all entry into the U.S. from outside. Some people will
still vote (enthusiastically) for them on that basis. But not enough to win.
That’s why they are ignoring the obvious.

Actually, some are claiming that the equivalence I’ve drawn between entering as
a refugee versus entering on (say) a tourist visa is false, because it’s easier
to enter as a refugee, since the government is not doing any type of background
checks for radical Islamic connections or looking for any other red flags.

This claim is made by people who are either lying on their own, or got the idea
from someone who was. Cruz, for example, said in that same “no history of
pretending to be Christians” interview that the refugees aren’t vetted, that
the government is not trying to check into their backgrounds for connections to
radical Islam. I’ve seen comments by many people on Facebook that say the same
thing. Sarah Palin said it on Seth Meyers’ show, exposing herself to the
embarrassment of being publicly corrected on national television by Meyers.

The truth is that it is harder to enter the U.S. on “refugee” status than in
more casual ways. In response to the widespread misinformation that refugees
are just allowed to walk into the U.S. without anyone checking on their
background, the website whitehouse.gov posted the following last week (Nov.
20): Infographic: The Screening Process for Refugee Entry into the United
States. Read through the document. It almost appears that, if offered a choice
between entering as a refugee versus entering as a Nobel Prize winner, a
terrorist would say, “Hmmm. I think I’ll try to win that prize.”

So much for saying refugee status is somehow an easier way in than normal
immigration or a regular visa. “Thinking things through” leads to the
conclusion that either refugees should be accepted, or else nobody from outside
the country should be allowed any means of entry at all.

That is my take on point (1), above. Let me get to point (2): the consequences
of making Islamophobia an official national policy.

Many people wonder: How does a good kid from an American Muslim family become
radicalized, to the point of contacting ISIS and either traveling to Syria or
Iraq to join the fight there, or entering a conspiracy to commit terrorists
acts within the U.S.?

The answer is: By our treatment of perfectly innocent, perfectly loyal,
perfectly peaceful Muslims as if they were criminals, as if they were human
garbage, as if they were unworthy of even the most minimal common decency with
which we treat other strangers who don’t look Arabic. By, for example, taking a
teenager who came to school excited to show his teachers something he had built
and arresting him because of the fear that his device was a bomb, a fear
generated purely by the fact that his name was Ahmed Mohamed rather than Chris
Johnson.

Imagine living that life. Imagine that you are a quiet person, with friends,
with no intention of ever committing a crime, but all around you your community
is full of people who fear you, and treat you with contempt and hate, only
because they associate you, for reasons completely beyond your control, with
people elsewhere who have done terrible things. Imagine your emotions. Imagine
your reactions. Imagine the urge building within you of wanting to strike back
at an entire culture that hates you for your name, your ethnicity, and your
religion.

The knee-jerk refusal, by so many people in America and other Western nations,
to help desperate women and children fleeing from the deadly danger of a war
they had no hand in starting, because of the fear that helping these women and
children might expose us to terrorists, is causing exactly the danger that
these people seek to avoid. Our country, and all of these countries faced with
a stream of refugees, is increasing the risk of terrorism by fighting so hard
to decrease it, in such an ignorant, irrational, ham-handed way.

(See my full blog at atheiblog.com.)

Religiously Stingy

November 10, 2015November 10, 2015 atheiblogLeave a comment

In an interesting study titled “The Negative Association between Religiousness
and Children’s Altruism across the World,” led by Dr. Jean Decety of University
of Chicago, a team of researchers in psychology found that children in
religious households tend to have less willingness to share what they have with
others than children in non-religious households.

Religious people have reacted predictably, calling the study “unscientific” and
“pure crap,” these judgments coming from people who, as far as I can see, have
not specified what their credentials are for evaluating papers published in
Current Biology, a peer-reviewed scientific journal. For those not familiar
with the publication of scientific research, “peer review” is the process used
for judging whether a scientific research paper is worthy of publication in the
journal to which it has been submitted: the paper is sent out to recognized
experts in the field who review it, point out any flaws for correction, and who
may reject the paper if it does not meet the standards of that field of
scientific study. For the journal Current Biology, the Information for Authors
describes this process in detail. The paper “The Negative Association…” passed
through this process.

The lead author of “The Negative Association…”, Dr. Jean Decety, is the Irving
B. Harris Distinguished Service Professor of Psychology and Psychiatry at
University of Chicago. For those unaware, it is a very high professional honor
to have a named professorship at any university, let alone one of the most
prestigious research institutions in the United States. That doesn’t end the
list of Dr. Decety’s professional accomplishments: see his page here on the U
of Chicago website.

So I don’t pay much attention to people saying the paper is junk science
written by hacks who don’t know how to do research.

Here is a good non-technical summary of Dr. Decety’s paper on the U of Chicago
website. To quote the central findings of the paper from this summary:
“Children from religious families were less likely to share with others than
were children from non-religious families. A religious upbringing also was
associated with more punitive tendencies in response to anti-social behavior.”

The study included 1170 children, from six countries (Canada, China, Jordan,
South Africa, Turkey and the United States). For each of these children, the
religiousness of their home was assessed, by several different measures
(specified in the paper), and the children were interviewed in their native
languages by trained researchers, who administered tests of moral sensitivity
and had them play “The Dictator Game,” a measure of altruistic behavior that
assesses a child’s willingness to share possessions with another (anonymous,
unseen) child. (I will say more about this “game” later.)

There were three groups, among the children, that were large enough to make it
possible to reach statistically meaningful conclusions about those groups:
Christian (280 of the 1170 children), Muslim (510 of the children), and
Non-Religious (323). That accounts for 1113 of the children, so no meaningful
conclusions can be made about, say, Hindu children alone, or Jewish children
alone, in comparison with any of the other groups, because there weren’t enough
children of those religions to make it possible to reach any reliable
conclusions on those religions by themselves. (That does, in fact, accurately
reflect the fact that the great majority of people in the world are Christian,
Muslim, or have no religion.)

The average scores of the children from non-religious homes on the “Dictator
Game” showed a higher willingness to share possessions than the average scores
of children from Christian homes or Muslim homes, or from “religious” homes in
general. The difference was, to use some statistical jargon, “significant at
the p<.001 level" — translation: the finding, in the course of the research, of
a difference between religious and non-religious children in their willingness
to share possessions had less than one chance in a thousand of occuring just by
chance. Most journals will accept a finding if the likelihood of it occuring by
accident is less than 5%; in the case of the finding in Dr. Decety’s paper, the
chance that the distinction between religious and non-religious children’s
willingness to share is an accident is less than 1/10 of a percent. It seems
non-religious children really are willing to share their possessions more than
religious ones are.

This is not what Christians or Muslims would claim to be the case.

If you are reading this, and are making judgments of your own on the research,
positive or negative, those judgments are premature. So far, if you have
followed the link above to the university website summary (and certainly if you
haven’t followed the link), you haven’t seen enough. You haven’t seen the
research; you’ve only seen what a writer (Susie Allen) said about the research.
(Or what I have said about it.) No judgment can be valid until you read the
research paper itself, and it can be found here. (You need to be on a device
with a program or app that can read PDF documents, such as Abobe Reader. If
clicking the link didn’t work, that’s the problem. Google “Adobe Reader.”)

The paper (on page 5) only very briefly describes “The Dictator Game,” probably
because the authors assumed that people reading the paper are familiar with it,
but it does give a reference for the “game” that explains it in greater detail:
“Children’s altruistic behavior in the dictator game”, a paper from 2007 in the
journal Evolution & Human Behavior, introduces the “Dictator Game” and
describes it completely. It is intended as a measure of altruism in children,
and it consists of showing the child thirty very pretty stickers, asking the
child to choose ten that he/she likes best, telling the child he/she can keep
them, and then saying: “I only have time to give stickers to some of the
children in your class, but not to all them. If you want to, you can give some
of your stickers to a child in this class whom I do not give stickers to. You
do not have to give any of your stickers away, but if you want to, you could
give some to a child who didn’t get any. I do not know which child will get
them, and you will not know. Another lady will decide who gets them later.”

(In the “Children’s altruistic…” paper, read the section “2.2: Procedure.” It
says a lot more than I just did. Care is taken to ensure that the child
understands what the deal is, that the child understands he/she is under no
obligation to share, and that the child knows that the interviewer sitting in
front of him/her will not even know whether the child decided to share any
stickers or not. The procedure includes safeguards against, say, a child
setting aside stickers to share because he/she believed the interviewer
expected him/her to do so, or would be mad if he/she didn’t.)

This is important: in the “religious altruism” study by Dr. Decety, he and his
group did not invent this measure of altruism for the purpose of their study.
It was invented years earlier, by an entirely different group of researchers
for an entirely unrelated study. Dr. Decety’s group used it because it has, by
now, become an accepted way of measuring altruism in children. I am saying that
to undercut one of the amateur criticisms I have read.

Let me undercut another criticism, while I’m at it. I read one reaction that
said that Decety had not taken different national traditions or rich-kid vs.
poor-kid into account. That is, suppose the atheist families were mostly in
China. In that case, the study would be confusing atheist kids’ willingness to
share with Chinese kids’ willingness to share, unable to tell them apart.
Similarly, perhaps more of the Christian kids were from poor families, and were
less willing to share what they had because they were poor, not because they
were Christian.

That critic of the research simply hadn’t read Dr. Decety’s paper, or perhaps
read it but didn’t understand it. Let me quote from page 3: “Results from a
linear regression with number of stickers shared as the dependent variable and
age, country of origin, socieconomic status, and overall religiousness of the
household, suggest that age and religiousness were significant predictors of
sharing.” I don’t blame anyone for needing to have that seeming gibberish
translated into understandable English, because the number of people who have
studied graduate-level statistics at a university is small, but, as it happens,
I am such a person, and I know what that sentence meant: that the mathematical
analysis done by Dr. Decety’s team separated the effects of age, wealth,
nationality, and religiousness on a child’s willingness to share, and found
that children of the SAME AGE, SAME COUNTRY, AND SAME SOCIOECONOMIC STATUS were
more willing to share if they came from a non-religious household than if they
came from a religious one. The critic who said that the study was overlooking
factors such as national culture or rich-vs-poor was simply wrong: the authors
looked at all those factors and took them into account.

The conclusion flies in the face of the near-universal belief among Christians
and Muslims that atheists are immoral people, not to be trusted, that atheists
are not motivated to exhibit good behavior because they have no fear of God
punishing them for behaving badly. It is not surprising that so many Christians
and Muslims instantly reject the research performed in the study and the
qualifications of the research team to perform it, without actually reading the
paper or checking on the background of any of the authors.

I have a theory of my own to explain the results of the study. I’ll state my
observation in a picturesque way, and then explain it afterward. I think that
religious people (particularly Christians and Muslims, who believe everything
is controlled by a single supreme being, the God of Abraham) see their most
important connection to the world as vertical, while non-religious people see
their most important connection to the world as horizontal. And that is what
causes the results of Dr. Decety’s study.

(What in the hell do I mean by that? Bear with me, please.)

Christians and Muslims see their relationship with their God as the most
important fact, almost the only important fact, of their existence. That
relationship is the key to what they want above all: ensuring that their life
goes on forever. They have relationships with other people around them but,
aside from Christians wanting all those others to be Christians and Muslims
wanting them to be Muslims, those surrounding people are far less important
than God. (That is the vertical relationship I was talking about: between self
and God.)

Non-religious people have no relationship with the Man Upstairs. Their most
important relationships are horizontal, between themselves and all other people
in the world around them. Non-religious people teach their children to care
about other people, because there is nothing more important outside themselves
(such as God) for them to care about.

I believe that, as a consequence of that, the motivation for a non-religious
child to share his/her possessions with others is greater than for a religious
child, a child taught by religious parents: It’s not that religious parents
don’t teach anything about sharing, on the grounds that sharing is something
God would like to see you do, but for religious parents is just one of many,
many things to teach the child, mostly having to do with God. Non-religious
parents don’t have all that teaching-about-God to worry about, which increases
the focus on the relationships with other people, and the importance of sharing
with those other people.

I’m not going to insist on that as an explanation. It’s just a thought.

(See my full blog at atheiblog.com.)

My Fear of Ben Carson

October 21, 2015October 21, 2015 atheiblogLeave a comment

It is frightening to me that famed neurosurgeon Ben Carson stands a good chance
of winning the Republican nomination for President of the United States: while
currently running second behind Donald Trump (who scares me for entirely
different reasons), polls have found that Dr. Carson would pick up nearly all
of Trump’s support should The Donald, for whatever reason, drop out, which
would give Carson nearly fifty percent of the Republican vote.

The reason it is frightening is that Carson is so ignorant of world issues,
history, and the U.S. Constitution. When I say, relative to Dr. Carson, that
“the presidency isn’t brain surgery,” I mean it in an unusual way. I am saying
that Dr. Carson is trained in brain surgery, and is proficient at that, but
that in no way qualifies him for the entirely unrelated job of being president,
about which he knows nothing. The presidency requires an expertise in the
workings of the political process, a specific body of knowledge, and a grasp of
the subtleties and nuances of what makes the world, and has made the world, the
way it is, all of it far beyond anything Dr. Carson possesses.

In one interview, Dr. Carson suggested that we could solve the Palestinian
statehood problem thusly: “I don’t have any problem with the Palestinians
having a state, but does it need to be within the confines of Israeli
territory? Is that necessary, or can you sort of slip that area down into
Egypt?” He appears dismissive of Egypt’s own territorial integrity and the
possibility that Egypt might object to some of its land being taken away and
given to another country; ignorant of the fact that a large part of the
Palestinian population is within the borders of Jordan, so “slipping the
Palestinian state into Jordan,” where they already live, would make more sense,
other than, again, ignoring possible objections from Jordan; and ignorant that
the very existence of “Israeli territory” is exactly what is under dispute —
that before that area was Israel, as it has been for less than seventy years,
it was Palestine, hence the existence of “Palestinians” (it appears Carson may
have no idea where the name came from or that Israel pushed the Palestinians
out of Palestine, and they want it back).

In another interview, Carson was asked whether the U.S. should go to war with
Russia, were Russia to invade the Baltic states, following on Russia’s push
into Ukraine and annexation of Crimea. The good doctor suggested that the
Baltic states should become more involved with NATO. He had to be told by the
interviewer that the Baltic states already are members of NATO, which is
exactly the reason that the possibility of Russia invading them had become an
important issue.

Dr. Carson has said that Islamic radicalism dates back “thousands of years,” to
the “Biblical battle between Jacob and his brother Esau” in the Book of
Genesis. Islam, of course, is about 1400 years old, dating from its founding by
Muhammad, centuries after Christianity began, and the book of Genesis dates
from centuries before that. There is a tradition that the Arab states of the
modern world owe their founding to Esau or to Ishmael, one of another set of
Biblical brothers, so here Dr. Carson seems to be equating Muslims and Arabs —
a common mistake, but identifying Muslims with Arabs would annoy Iran,
Pakistan, Indonesia, and the Muslim portions of India, those parts of the
planet where most of the world’s Muslims live, none of them Arabs. There is no
evidence Dr. Carson is aware of that.

But I’m most concerned about his ignorance of the Constitution, and its
protections of freedom of (and from) religion.

Dr. Carson made a considerable amount of news with his rejection of the idea of
a Muslim president, unless such a person would be willing to “reject the tenets
of Islam and Sharia Law.” I would challenge him to state, accurately, exactly
what those tenets are, and how his position fits with the statement included in
the Constitution by the Founding Fathers, who were concerned with avoiding a
possible religion-based tyranny, that “…no religious test shall ever be
required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the United
States.” (Article VI, Paragraph 3.)

But the doctor’s latest pronouncement on that theme is genuinely scary. I have
my own fears about Dr. Carson that are almost identical to his fear of a Muslim
president: That he will base his policies on Biblical principles (often with
those principles not even really Bible-based but simply made up in his head
based on what he thinks the Bible says), rather than finding practical
solutions that take reality into account.

Dr. Carson, completely ignoring all of the written evidence that the Founding
Fathers did not want the country run on a religious basis (including the
religious-test prohibition cited above, and the anti-establishment clause in
the First Amendment: “Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of
religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof”), told the assembled
audience in a Gainesville, Georgia church that “The pledge of allegiance to our
flag says we are one nation under God. Many courtrooms in the land on the wall
it says ‘In God We Trust.’ Every coin in our pocket, every bill in our wallet
says ‘In God We Trust.’ So if it’s in our founding documents, it’s in our
pledges, in our courts and it’s on our money, but we’re not supposed to talk
about it, what in the world is that? In medicine it’s called schizophrenia. And
I, for one, am simply not willing to kick God to the curb.”

Dr. Carson, it seems, is under the impression that the Founding Fathers, as
part of the Constitution drafted in 1787, included the national motto “In God
We Trust,” and the Pledge of Allegiance describing the U.S. as “one nation
under God.” But “In God We Trust” first appeared on coins in 1864, and was not
made the official national motto until 1956. (And only after that did it ever
appear on paper currency.) The Pledge of Allegiance was written in 1892, but
did not contain the words “under God” until 1954. Neither the motto nor the
pledge is, by any possible stretch of the concept, part of America’s “founding
documents.” There is no “founding document” of American history that includes
any of the sentiments to which Dr. Carson is referring and, as I said above,
the founding documents in fact actually go a considerable distance in the
opposite direction. (I would also dispute the accuracy of the “schizophrenia”
diagnosis and Dr. Carson’s qualifications to make it or his understanding of
what the word means. But that’s another issue.)

Note the dates on the inclusion of the “God” reference in the pledge and the
official adoption of the motto: Both occured in the mid-1950s, at the height of
a national panic over the threat of Communism. Christians in America believed
themselves to be endangered by “godless” Communism, and the proclamation that
America was a Christian nation, stated in as many ways possible, was felt to be
an important way of standing firm and fighting back. Consider the similarity,
in that sense, between the 1950s and the 2010s: Today, again, Christians in
America believe they are under attack, both from outside (Islamic radicalism)
and from inside (secular, non-God-based forces that would destroy the very
fabric of America and reject the principles on which America was founded —
ignoring the fact that it wasn’t founded on those principles). So, as was the
case sixty years ago, there is pushback against the threat. In the 1950s, many
Americans had their freedom and ability to make a living taken from them based
on unfounded rumors that they might be communists. A Ben Carson presidency may
well usher in an era that repeats that past, ending freedom of thought, freedom
of association, freedom from religious coercion, and wrecking, once more, the
lives of many whose personal beliefs don’t meet with the approval of
self-appointed guardians of religious orthodoxy.

(See my full blog at atheiblog.com.)

The Afterlife

October 9, 2015October 9, 2015 atheiblogLeave a comment

It’s obvious to any atheist that religious people, or at least followers of the
Abrahamic religions in particular (Christianity, Judaism, Islam) are
uncomfortable with them. One of the reasons, which I mentioned at the start of
my chapter on “Morality for Atheists” in my book, is that religious people
believe that atheists are dangerous because they have no moral code.

But there is, it seems, more to it, and this is an angle I had never thought of
before: atheists frighten the religious because the presence of atheists, who
have no belief in an afterlife, opens up the question, “What if they’re right?”
Theists don’t believe we atheists are right, but they are unable to keep the
seeds of doubt from germinating in their minds. And that makes them pretty
scared of us, and makes them wish we would all go away. Or stop being atheists.

So says Tom Jacobs, in Pacific Standard, in an article titled “Why Atheists
Terrify Believers”. According to Jacobs, atheists “threaten the comforting
narratives that give meaning to so many people’s lives, and make the thought of
death bearable.”

I’ve given plenty of thought to the afterlife, and why so many people believe
in it. The primary reason is that it is so difficult not to believe that our
self-being will continue, in some other plane of existence, after we die. We
can’t imagine a universe in which we don’t exist, because as soon as we try to
visualize it, there we are in the middle of it, as the person doing the
visualizing. (How do I get around this inability to imagine a world in which I
don’t exist? I don’t bother trying.)

Yet every argument for the existence of an afterlife, in the usual sense of it,
runs into inconvenient physical facts. I’ve got those facts summarized in my
chapter titled “Some Questions”. (It’s the subject of question 4.) Essentially
it’s the observation that all parts of our selfhood — our memories, our
emotions, and even our sense of I-am-me — are functions of the physical
operation of the brain, each located in a specific part of the brain, and any
one of those can be lost, permanently, when those parts of the brain are
physically damaged. They are not independent of our physical existence. So if
there is an independent “soul,” it does not carry with it any of our memories,
our emotions, or our sense of ourselves as individuals — any of the things,
that is, that we must, but are unable to, take with us into an afterlife
following our deaths. Those are all things our brains provide for us, in a
physical, electrical manner.

Interestingly, even a religion (Buddhism) without gods still assumes an
afterlife, though it is rather a different perception of it. (I apologize to
any Buddhists if I am misrepresenting their beliefs in any of what follows.)
There are different branches of Buddhism, and the specific branch I am going to
refer to here is Theravada Buddhism. Buddhism is a nontheistic religion (that
is, not involving any gods, though it is unclear to me whether Buddhists think
any gods exist). Buddhists, in common with several other Eastern religions,
believe that we are all caught in a cycle of reincarnation — that each of us,
when we die, will be reborn into another (not necessarily human) life. Each of
us, that is, is already in an “afterlife.” (Exactly how the reincarnated me is
“me” is going to need to be explained to me, since our next life comes without
any memories of any previous ones.) In Theravada one strives to reach Nirvana,
which is an internal state devoid of exactly those things that I said, above,
that you can’t take with you into an afterlife. In a state of Nirvana, you have
no thoughts, no memories, no emotions, no sense of self — or even a sense of
time, so that the state, in a sense, lasts forever.

Nirvana is not an afterlife — one achieves the state during one’s lifetime.
Obviously most people die without reaching Nirvana, and continue the
reincarnation cycle. Nirvana is the hoped-for eventual escape from this cycle:
in “Nirvana-in-this-lifetime,” physical life continues, not that that matters
to the living person in that timeless state. This is followed by
“Nirvana-after-death,” or “paranirvana,” in which the body dies, disintegrates,
and is not reborn. Paranirvana still isn’t the afterlife Christians imagine.
Buddhists, on reaching Nirvana and later dying, don’t experience “life after
death,” since they do not exactly, in that state, “experience” anything at all.
The self is gone. So when I say that Buddhists believe in an afterlife, I am
referring only to reincarnation, not Nirvana.

Since Buddhism gets around so many of my objections to religion (belief in
supernatural beings; belief in one’s consciousness going on forever after
death), I suppose I could almost become a Buddhist, except for my pesky need
for evidence that a thing (such as Nirvana) can possibly exist before I’m
willing to say it might. And there are also my objections to the cycle of
rebirth, since, as I said, I am mystified by how the reborn me is “me” without
any conscious sense of having previously existed. I am further mystified by the
mechanism behind the rebirth cycle, in that no supreme being set it in motion
or is in charge of it. Apparently it is simply the way things are — with no
beginning, going forever into the past, which is, today, at odds with all of
the evidence science has collected that our planet, the life on it, and in fact
the universe itself all had a beginning. But more importantly, there is zero
physical evidence for the rebirth cycle. In regards to Nirvana, there is no
evidence, because no one can describe it (since it is indescribable) and,
obviously, no one has ever come back from it if they have attained it (and told
the world, “Yeah, really, it was pretty cool”). So I’m going to put Buddhism in
the same category as all other religions: “wish systems” based on unfounded
beliefs.

My reason for mentioning Buddhism at all is to give an example of a belief
system that is widely accepted into the classification of “religion” despite
not having any gods, and to point out that it does, however, include a belief
in an afterlife (though the goal is to escape it, not embrace it). So difficult
is it for the human mind to avoid imagining an afterlife that even belief
systems based in no way on gods still posit an afterlife. It seems that some
sort of afterlife, rather than some sort of god, is the irreducible attribute
of the human construct of religion.

(See my full blog at atheiblog.com.)

Did Jesus Even Exist? – Part 2

September 26, 2015September 27, 2015 atheiblog2 Comments

Earlier (July 8) I posted about Richard Carrier and the evidence he has
offered, in books and lectures, to support the claim that the Jesus of the
Bible never existed. I want to continue in that vein by citing the principal
points made by Earl Doherty in his book, Jesus: Neither God Nor Man — The Case
For A Mythical Jesus.

Doherty packs a lot of scholarship and research behind his arguments. He is
fluent in ancient Greek, so he can read the New Testament in its original words
and analyze (and sometimes correct) the English interpretations of the text. He
has read, it seems, everything prominent Bible scholars have ever written on
the subject of the history of Christianity. He has read the many texts from two
thousand or more years ago that relate to Bible themes but never made it into
the canonical Bible. He knows all of the prevailing religious beliefs, sects,
and cults in the centuries around the founding of Christianity. And he puts all
of that knowledge together in making a compelling case for Jesus as a purely
invented figure — not an exaggeration of a man who lived two thousand years
ago, but a symbol embodying the beliefs of a religious movement who never
existed at all, any more than Uncle Sam, the symbol of America, ever actually
lived.

I can’t possibly do justice to Doherty’s work in summary. In the amount of
space I want to take here I can only give the barest outline.

The New Testament basically consists of two parts (not counting the bizarre
book of Revelation, placed at the very end): (1) The four Gospels (with
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John given as authors, though, as many Bible scholars
have stated, if those were the actual names of the authors it would only be
coincidence), which give the biography of Jesus, recounting his teachings, his
“miracles,” and his execution on the cross by Pontius Pilate at the insistence
of local Jewish authorities — and, of course, his resurrection and the meaning
of it; and (2) the Epistles, the letters written by the Apostles (or which
claim to be written by them, some of which are held by consensus of Bible
scholars to be forgeries) during the years in which they traveled around the
Middle East spreading the “gospel” — not the written Gospels mentioned above,
but simply the “word.” (Between the Gospels and the Epistles is the Book of
Acts of the Apostles, which is a little history of the beginnings of the spread
of the Christian movement and is attributed in authorship to the same man who
wrote the Gospel of Luke.) Gospel simply means “good news,” in this case in
reference to the news that Jesus, the son of God, would save us all from this
terrible world and give us eternal life in a higher realm.

Many Christians are unaware of the consensus among Bible scholars that the
Epistles (mostly) were written first, before the Gospels. Most of the Epistles
are attributed to the indefatigable Paul of Tarsus, who wrote an endless stream
of letters to the early Christian communities, encouraging and occasionally
criticizing them. Paul died sometime around 67 CE (“Common Era,” or “Christian
Era,” formerly called A.D.), and the best guesses as to when Paul’s epistles
were written dates them around the 50s or 60s CE. Among the Gospels, it is
generally believed Mark was written first, and it is difficult to argue that
the writing was done before around 70; Matthew and Luke, copied from Mark and
another (lost) source called Q, and the Gospel of John, from a community
referred to as the Johannines, were most likely written a decade or so on
either side of 100.

Doherty begins his analysis with the Epistles, and points out that they are
almost entirely lacking in any biographical details of Jesus, despite the fact
that Jesus supposedly had lived no more than two or three decades earlier and
his life and death supposedly put the spreading of the Word into motion.
Doherty handles the very few exceptions to the above statement. Christians cite
one bit of biographical information of Jesus in a letter by Paul: a passage in
1 Thessalonians (2:15-16), which speaks of Jews “who killed the Lord Jesus and
drove us out, the Jews who are heedless of God’s will and enemies of their
fellow men, hindering us from preaching to the gentiles to lead them to
salvation. All this time they have been making up the full measure of their
guilt, and now retribution has overtaken them for good and all.” The problem is
that the violently anti-Jewish sentiment in those verses attributing the death
of Jesus to Jews is totally unlike anything Paul ever said anywhere else about
the Jews (of whom he was one), but it was extremely representative of Christian
attitudes towards Jews in the mid-2nd century, a hundred years after Paul’s
death; and more to the point, no Bible scholar has been able to offer a
believable case for what the “retribution… overtak[ing] them” could possibly
have been referring to, the best guess being that it was the destruction of
Jerusalem — which happened years after Paul died. For these reasons, many
scholars have concluded that these verses are an “interpolation,” added to the
text many years later by an anti-Jewish priest or scribe, at a time when the
supposed biography of Jesus was known and accepted by all Christians. There is
no other reference anywhere in any of the Epistles to Jesus being killed by
Jews. As for the other exception to the absence of biographical information for
Jesus, it occurs in a letter believed to have been written early in the 2nd
century (and not by Paul), thus failing to demonstrate that any biographical
details of Jesus’ life existed in the middle of the 1st.

Critics of Doherty’s research have said that the absence of specific details is
meaningless; that just because a writer didn’t say something does not imply he
didn’t know it. Doherty responds that in many instances, the absence of the
information is impossible to explain. When Paul, for example, writes to the
members of one of the Christian communities he has visited to exhort them to
stand fast against persecution, and gives them several role models to follow,
prophets who had been killed for stating their beliefs and saying things the
authorities did not want said, yet who had admirably remained true to their
missions, it is impossible to explain why Paul didn’t include Jesus himself on
that list, other than to conclude that Paul did not see Jesus as having been
killed by earthly authorities — leaving a huge chasm between Paul’s perception
of Jesus and that of modern day Christians. And that is just one of several
places in Paul’s writings where the absence of a mention of the life of Jesus,
in connection with whatever point Paul is trying to make, is inexplicable.

Paul, though, and the other Epistle writers, do say quite a lot about Jesus,
mostly about his death and resurrection, and it is natural to wonder where that
came from.

Doherty establishes that there is evidence, in the writings of various
religious cults in operation at the time, that it was very common to think of
our world, in which we go through our lives, as being one of many different
planes of existence. Ours was seen the most “corrupt” of the planes, the one
farthest from God. Between us and God come other planes, often believed to have
specific locations in the heavens — for example, the next plane above us is
just below the Moon — and on those planes, spiritual beings with greater purity
than ourselves, such as the angels, live. (Beliefs in these spiritual domains
often specified that there were a specific number of them, often seven, so that
God dwelt in the “seventh heaven.”) And it was also common among these cults to
envision a “savior” figure, who lived in one of these mythical realms, who had
died and arisen in a symbolic way, executed (sometimes by crucifixion) in one
of the lower realms but not our own, thereafter rising back to the higher plane
from which he had come, so that we humans could, like him, also rise to a
higher plane after death, a plane less corrupt, less oppressive, and less
miserable.

Everything Paul wrote in his letters to the churches and communities he was
concerned with fits with the idea that Paul believed that Jesus, like these
other salvation figures, had descended from a higher heaven to a lower one,
above the plane of human existence, and that it was there that he was crucified
and then conquered death by rising again. Again, Doherty is not just relying on
an absence of evidence that Paul didn’t believe that — there are plenty of
signs in his writings pointing to him having such beliefs. In 2 Corinthians,
Paul describes a vision in which he “was caught up as far as the third heaven,”
verifying he did indeed conceive of the cosmos in that way; several times he
says or suggests that Jesus’ crucifixion took place before humanity even
existed (as opposed to “twenty years or so ago” as one would have expected),
and that it has only been revealed in Paul’s time, as opposed to happening
then; and the most interesting indication implying Paul’s view of Jesus lacking
any history of his walking the Earth as a man comes in his letter to the
Galatians (1:11-12): “I want you to know, brethren, that the gospel [again, the
“good news,” not a written document] that I preached is not of human origin. I
did not receive it from any man, nor was I taught it; rather, I received it by
revelation from Jesus Christ.” Paul didn’t think of Jesus as a man who had
lived, who had given the message which eventually made its way through human
channels to Paul: he denies any such source for the information he has been
passing along. Rather, it came to him in a “revelation” without any human
agency at all. Paul actually says that many times: that his knowledge of the
arrangements God has made for the salvation of humanity come to him as a
revelation through the Holy Spirit, which has given him visions and has shown
him how to interpret scripture — not from any record, oral or written, of what
Jesus may have said on the subject.

So if Jesus, in the mid-first century, was seen as a being who had carried out
God’s will in a mythical realm, how did he get to have such a detailed
biography — born in Bethlehem in a stable, lived in Nazareth, traveled through
Galilee preaching, executed by crucifixion outside Jerusalem, with a posse of
followers with names and histories of their own, with specific things he said
and did as he traveled, and so on? (None of those details is mentioned in the
Epistles.)

Enter Mark.

Any belief that Mark, in writing his gospel, was working from information
preserved by people who had known Jesus personally, runs up against several
problems. The biggest is that there are no preserved Christian writings, either
predating Mark or contemporary with him (and remember the Epistles are included
in the writings predating Mark), that give any biographical information on
Jesus whatsoever. There is no way to account for that. If Jesus was such a
popular, transformative figure as Mark describes him (Jesus came to have huge
crowds following him around), it is impossible that no one would have written
anything about his life until Mark did, several decades after Jesus’ death.
Further: the specific details Mark gives of things Jesus did are almost
entirely lifted from the Old Testament, in which those things were done by
other people. Doherty believes that Mark did not, himself, intend for his
invention of Jesus as a living man to be taken literally, as an actual
biography: it appears that he meant it as an allegory, using Jesus (or that is,
Yeshua, a Hebrew name that means “savior” or “to rescue,” which eventually
became Jesus in English) to represent the salvation beliefs of his community.
To me, the most convincing evidence that Mark’s gospel was meant as an allegory
is that, as Doherty points out, Mark often invented names for his characters
that described the roles they played, exactly as John Bunyan did in his classic
17th century allegory The Pilgrim’s Progress. In the latter book, Bunyan’s main
character is named Christian, he meets men (appropriately) named Obstinate and
Pliable, and so on. In Mark’s gospel, characters include Judas, whose name
simply means Jew; Jairus, whose daughter is awakened by Jesus, has a name
meaning “he will awaken”; the name Bar-Timaeus, given to the blind beggar Jesus
heals, means “son of poverty.” (Luke also seems to have engaged in the same
practice, giving a name to an almsgiver that means “to give alms.”) But common,
semi-literate people have a hard time with the metaphors of allegories, so if
Mark meant for his book to be an allegory, it’s not at all surprising simpler
folk took his characters (including his main character Jesus) to be real.

That Luke and Matthew copied directly from Mark and “Q” is generally held by
Bible scholars to be true, and is hard to argue against. (The Gospel of John is
a separate consideration, about which Doherty goes into detail, but I will
not.) Almost 90% of Mark turns up in Matthew; more than half of Mark is in
Luke. Matthew and Luke, meanwhile, each contain a considerable amount of
material not in Mark. There are two main reasons Matthew and Luke are widely
believed to have copied their extra, non-Mark material from a common source:
(1) This extra material in these two gospels has a considerable amount of
overlap, and (2) it is not likely that either Luke nor Matthew copied the
other’s gospel, because the overlap is always found in completely different
narrative contexts. The content of Q (short for “Quelle,” the German word for
“source”) has been reconstructed from the overlap, which consists almost
entirely of sayings, which Matthew and Luke put in Jesus’ mouth, and in each
gospel, the author (Matthew or Luke) invented a context for each such saying —
and the context is never the same in the two gospels: the people to whom Jesus
is speaking, the situation, the lead-in to the saying, these are always
different between Matthew and Luke. If either had copied the sayings from the
other, the context would have to be the same at least sometimes. The
descriptions of the birth of Jesus, and of his post-resurrection appearances,
are also absent from Mark. (In some versions of Mark the disciples do see Jesus
after his resurrection, but this part of the story doesn’t appear in the oldest
copies, and it is widely believed not to be authentic to the original, but
instead added later by another writer, who seems to have copied at least part
of it from Luke.) Again, Matthew and Luke, who seem to have created the
narratives of these parts of Jesus’ life, don’t agree on them, even on a detail
as basic as where Jesus met up with his disciples after his resurrection (in
Matthew: Galilee; in Luke: Jerusalem).

Everything above fits well with the idea of Jesus being purely an invention,
and any other conclusion is very difficult to reconcile with the written
record.

Doherty can’t be said to have proved Jesus never existed, and that isn’t really
his intention. He is simply trying to call the existence of Jesus as a
historical figure into question — not just the accuracy of the depiction of
Jesus as a man, but whether the Jesus spoken of in the New Testament ever
existed at all. To this end, he has at least completely convinced me. It’s up
to any person reading his book to make that judgment for themselves.

(Read my full blog at atheiblog.com.)

Posts navigation

 
Older Posts

Contact Daniel:

[blogaddy]

LINKS TO SIMILAR SITES

The Book of Daniel: Testimony of an Atheist

Huge list of atheist agnostic skeptic humanist websites

Archives

  • January 2016 (1)
  • December 2015 (1)
  • November 2015 (2)
  • October 2015 (2)
  • September 2015 (3)
  • August 2015 (5)
  • July 2015 (6)
  • June 2015 (5)
  • May 2015 (4)

Categories

  • Belief (10)
  • Bible believable? (5)
  • Blunderbuss (2)
  • Miracles (2)
  • Morality (2)
  • Uncategorized (2)
  • Values (6)

Blog at WordPress.com. | The Nucleare Theme.
Back to top
atheiblog
Blog at WordPress.com. The Nucleare Theme.
Follow

Follow “atheiblog”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
