
icon Home Page icon Login icon Register icon RSS
Atheist Realm
Atheist Realm Blog
                                       
                                     • Home
                                     • About
                                • How To Register
                                    • Contact

Oct
12
2015

Columbus Christianity Day

datePosted on 15:38, October 12th, 2015 by Kosmic
Kurt

Today, like every 2nd Monday in October, the United
States celebrates Columbus Day as a national
holiday. There always has been a lot of
anti-Columbus propaganda – and for good reason.
Christopher Columbus is generally credited with
beginning the invasion which wiped out entire tribes
of Native Americans. Columbus, himself, was an
Italian explorer who claimed the New World for his
benefactors, Ferdinand and Isabella. After he
reached the New World, one of his objectives was the
spread of Christianity to all of the unclean
infidels. This, of course led to more killing. Only
25 years after Columbus landed in Hispaniola, over a
quarter of a million Arawaks were killed or died
from smallpox and other diseases in which they had
no immunity. More notable is the way Columbus ruled
when he was appointed Governor of Hispaniola. He
ruled with an iron fist and slaughter many natives
that would not capitulate to being his slaves. If
anyone takes the time to actually study the life of
Christopher Columbus, it becomes very clear he was
not the stuff of holidays. As far as discovering
America, the Norse beat him here by at least two
hundred years. So, how did an official US holiday
become named after a murderous opportunist?
Christians. Specifically, the Knights of Columbus.
This is the same group that forced President
Eisenhower to add the words “In god we trust” to the
Pledge of Allegiance. The Knights persuaded FDR to
proclaim the first Columbus Day on Oct. 12th, 1937.
The Knights of Columbus contains many Italian
Catholics. Columbus was an Italian Catholic. Do the
math.

categoryPosted in Uncategorized | commentsNo
Comments | moreRead More >>
May
06
2014

Supreme Court Rules in Favor of Prayer

datePosted on 16:56, May 6th, 2014 by Kosmic Kurt

Yesterday’s asinine decision by the Supreme Court to
allow sectarian prayer at town meetings is a
colossal mistake.  The 5-4 decision in favor of
allowing the Town of Greece NY to open town meetings
with a Christian Prayer directly attacks all
non-Christians.  Justice Elena Kagan got it right
when she wrote the minority opinion.

    “When the citizens of this country approach
    their government, they do so only as Americans,
    not as members of one faith or another, …and
    that means that even in a partly legislative
    body, they should not confront
    government-sponsored worship that divides them
    along religious lines.”

    –Supreme Court Justice Elena Kagan

The majority decision is wrong on many counts.  It
fails the 1971 “Lemon test” ruling that states that
every government action must meet three criteria:

1                     Must have a secular purpose

2                     Must not advance or prohibit
religion

3                     Must try to avoid government
entanglement with religion

Allowing Christian prayer at government meetings
does not pass the test.

The decision fails in making government accessible
to the general public.  Why should anyone even
bother trying to participate in local government
when they are made to feel like they don’t belong? 
Why would any rational person want to even be
anywhere near a place where people practice an
irrational ritual that insults and excludes them?

    “The First Amendment is not a majority rule, and
    government may not seek to define permissible
    categories of religious speech.  Once it invites
    prayer into the public sphere, government must
    permit a prayer-giver to address his or her own
    God or gods as conscience dictates.”

    –Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy

Justice Kennedy must have been smoking crack!  This
is a ridiculous misinterpretation of the First
Amendment.  The whole point is for the government
not to invite religion into the public sphere. 
Government can not endorse any religion.  If it
does, then we go through the whole “whose god?”
nonsense.  The answer is clearly, “No god.”

By allowing Christian prayer at public government
meetings, all non-Christians are made to feel they
are outsiders.  I recently read a Jewish response to
the decision saying that it does not offend them to
hear a Christian prayer at a government meeting. 
Like Hades is doesn’t!  That is a full out lie. 
Jewish, Muslim, Hindu apologists, you are not
helping anyone – especially yourselves.  If you
think your god or prayers would be welcome at a town
meeting, I encourage you to try it.  Just wear a
face mask because you are going to get punched. 
This ruling was specifically for Christian prayer.

I am all for respecting one’s right to have one’s
own religion and one’s own god(s).  That is not the
issue.  The issue is that their religion and their
imaginary friends do not belong in my tax-paid-for
public government meeting.  You cannot have freedom
of religion in government without freedom from
religion in government.

Once again, Thomas Jefferson and rational thinking
should have carried the day and the vote – but
didn’t.

    “I contemplate with sovereign reverence that act
    of the whole American people which declared that
    their legislature should “make no law respecting
    an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the
    free exercise thereof,” thus building a wall of
    separation between Church & State.”

    Thomas Jefferson
    Jan. 1 1802

categoryPosted in Uncategorized | commentsNo
Comments | moreRead More >>
Mar
15
2013

New Pope, Same Old Church

datePosted on 03:27, March 15th, 2013 by Kosmic Kurt

Much of the world has been lauding the
red-caped-club for their “enlightened” decision to
make Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio their new
leader. Bergoglio is the first Pope from the Western
Hemisphere. World leaders are rejoicing. They
declare, “The Catholic Church has finally broken
with tradition and put someone different in charge.”
“The reign of Benedict the Horrible is finally
over.” “The Church will now reach out to the
disenfranchised and begin to rebuild its institution
for the betterment of society.” Maybe the world will
actually become a better place. If you believe that,
please stop reading now. You don’t deserve that
privilege.

Let’s review some facts. About 17% of the world
claims to be Catholic. However, many of those
Catholics are not good Catholics. Not good, in the
sense that they do not follow the directives of
their leaders very well. Fact: The Catholic Church
prohibits contraception, abortion, and
homosexuality. Fact: Many Catholics use
contraception, do not oppose abortion, and accept
gays. Now consider the fact that many Catholic
priests have been convicted of raping and sodomizing
young children. In the past few decades the Catholic
Church has been besieged with lawsuits for the
impropriety of its leaders. The sex abuse scandals
that have surfaced are so large that many dioceses
cannot even sustain themselves due to the
settlements and convictions made against them. Case
and point: The Milwaukee Archdiocese recently
declared bankruptcy to avoid having to pay their
unfortunate victims any restitution. Many Catholics
are losing faith in the Catholic institution and are
choosing to leave their churches for something else.
They are disillusioned and feel betrayed by the very
institution that is supposed to guiding and
nourishing them. In other words, the sheep are
finally waking up and leaving their flock for
greener and less harmful pastures.

The Catholic Church is aware of the mass exodus of
its parishioners. However, rather than adapt to
reality and its newly enlightened members, the
Church has chosen to do as it always does and ignore
common sense and common decency and continue to spew
its anachronistic, hurtful, virulence at those who
it should instead be embracing. The election of
Bergoglio is no exception. For starters, let’s just
make a couple of things clear. The Catholic Church
will never allow abortion, gays, or anything else
that it feels will loosen its controlling grip on
the asinine sexual morality it preaches. That said;
let’s look at the new Pope.

Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio, DBA Pope Frances, is
a church conservative on many issues. Like all of
his costumed predecessors he believes women are the
source of original sin. It is doubtful if he would
ever support women priests. He has also been quoted
as saying,

    ” …same-sex marriage attacks God’s plan.”

And that,

    “…gay people adopting children is an act of
    discrimination against children. “

He has referred to the pro-choice “movement” as a

    “culture of death.”

Really? “Lighten up Frances!” He has also repeatedly
opposed the free distribution of contraceptives in
Argentina.

As freethinking, rational, non-believers, we must be
extremely vigilant not to allow the misinformation
and ill-begotten pretense of reform to obfuscate the
truth that, new pope or not, the Catholic Church is,
and most likely will remain, a divisive, harmful
monster that prevents people from living good, moral
and meaningful lives.

categoryPosted in Uncategorized | commentsNo
Comments | moreRead More >>
Oct
25
2012

On Rape, Religion, and Republicans

datePosted on 02:22, October 25th, 2012 by Kosmic
Kurt

Yes, it is official.  The Republican Party is the
party of rape and religion. Today, Indiana Senate
candidate Richard Mourdock actually stated that when
a woman becomes pregnant during a rape, “that’s
something God intended.” The real kicker is that the
Republican Party stood by Mourdock’s asinine remark.
Why are there female republicans? Are they that
insecure, that ignorant, and that masochistic that
they cannot understand that their entire sex has
just been marginalized to that of sub-human status?

Almost every stupid, misleading, and untrue remark
made by republicans invokes God! When moronic
Vice-Presidential candidate Paul Ryan was asked his
opinion on abortion during a debate, the first words
out of his mouth were, “I’m a Catholic.” Really? Who
cares? No one asked you for your religion. Your
religion has no place in our government! The current
batch of Republican candidates are so ignorant about
United States history that most even deny that
Thomas Jefferson was the one who pushed to keep
religion out of our government. Jefferson explained
that the First amendment states that the government
of the United States shall, “”make no law respecting
an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the
free exercise thereof,” thus building a wall of
separation between Church & State.” Jefferson’s wall
has protected the rights and freedoms of both the
religious and non-religious for over 200 years. But
apparently today’s Republicans no longer want that
protection.

The late, conservative Senator Barry Goldwater
predicted the demise of the Republican Party decades
ago, “Mark my word, if and when these preachers get
control of the [Republican] party, and they’re sure
trying to do so, it’s going to be a terrible damn
problem.” Well, his worst fears have been realized.
We have a terrible damn problem. The Republican
Party is the party of God. Almost every Republican
candidate feels they must invoke an imaginary friend
to respond to even the most basic of questions. And
for those of us that do not believe in gods, the
Republican Party has effectively shut us out. But
that apparently is not enough. It is very clear that
women have no place in a Republican Party world
either.

In addition to Mourdock’s remark, there was Todd
Akin, Republican Senate nominee from Missouri, who
said this past August that pregnancy as a result of
“legitimate rape” is rare as “the female body has
ways to try and shut that whole thing down”. What
planet does Akin live on? Perhaps if he studied
biology instead of reading abusive, violent,
anti-woman BS scripture espousing the propaganda of
an insane, malevolent monster of a god, he may have
not made such a stupid remark. However, he did make
the remark. Mourdock, Akin, Ryan, and most other
Republicans hate women. They might not come right
out and say it, but their actions and words betray
their intent. Republicans hate women. That is the
fact, and for the life of me I cannot understand how
any woman, regardless of her lack of education or
experience could, even from a fleeting moment,
entertain the idea of voting for a Republican. That
is, unless they truly relish the idea of
surrendering all of their freedoms and they support
a world where safe and affordable health care and
reproductive choice are illegal and society accepts
rape as a legitimate action sanctioned by God.

categoryPosted in Uncategorized | commentsNo
Comments | moreRead More >>
Sep
18
2012

Letter to Angry Muslims

datePosted on 03:40, September 18th, 2012 by Kosmic
Kurt

Dear angry Muslims,

Please stop killing innocent people. Then again,
maybe you shouldn’t stop. By killing innocent
people, you Muslims are providing a textbook example
of why religion is deleterious to your health. So,
maybe I should thank you for helping to prove my
point – religion kills!

To recap: A whacked-out Christian fundamentalist
posing as a whacked-out Jew made a distasteful movie
mocking the Islamic prophet Mohammad. Then you super
whacked-out Muslim fundamentalists took offense and
decided to escalate your war against the United
States, and actually started killing Americans! Now
you, along with most other theists, are blaming the    • Search for:
crazy Christian fundamentalist and the United            [                    ]
States,  for all the violence. Really? It doesn’t        [Search]
matter if the movie is in poor taste or not. The       • The cure for a
movie itself is irrelevant. It’s just a movie! When      fallacious argument is
I saw The Passion of Christ it made me sick. It was      a better argument, not
the most distasteful B.S. I had ever seen. All the       the suppression of
Jews should have gone out and killed Mel Gibson for      ideas. -- Carl Sagan
making that piece of crap. But they didn’t. It was
just a movie.                                          • 
                                                         January 2016
You say that Islam is a peaceful religion. I am so       M  T  W  T  F  S  S
sick and tired of Islamic apologists saying that. It     << Oct       
is not peaceful to slaughter innocent people because                 1  2  3
you don’t like a movie, cartoon, book, or anything       4  5  6  7  8  9  10
that may be offensive to your crazy myopic               11 12 13 14 15 16 17
reality-phobic worldview. All religions are silly        18 19 20 21 22 23 24
and all religions can and should be mocked. You          25 26 27 28 29 30 31
don’t like it, too bad. Grow up! What’s the matter?
Your centuries-old religious dogma can’t survive a     • ADMIN
little fun by a harmless movie?
                                                           □ Log in
The murders you Muslims committed this past week in        □ Entries RSS
the name the “peaceful religion’s peaceful prophet”        □ Comments RSS
need to be answered with swift and, if necessary,          □ WordPress.org
deadly force. The murder of innocents never “okay.”    • Atheist Realm
And just to clarify, I’m not suggesting that the
United States declare war on Libya or Egypt, or any        □ Home
other Muslim country. The Libyan and Egyptian              □ Coming Out
governments did not attack the embassy or commit           □ News Feeds
murder. Those acts were carried out by you, the            □ Atheism
Muslim fundies; the same Muslim fundies that too           □ Links
many people here in the United States back down and        □ About
actually defend. We need to put an end to this         • Recent Posts
over-sensitive politically correct garbage. Freedom
of speech means that the people, all people, even          □ Columbus
the whacked-out Christian fundamentalist nut-jobs,           Christianity Day
have a right to make a movie mocking the super             □ Supreme Court
whacked-out Muslim fundamentalist s nut-jobs’                Rules in Favor of
prophet. People need to chill.                               Prayer
                                                           □ New Pope, Same Old
To all you semi-rational theists, think about this:          Church
Imagine going out and killing someone just because         □ On Rape, Religion,
you’re upset at something that happened across the           and Republicans
world that had absolutely nothing what-so-ever to do       □ Letter to Angry
with the person you just killed. What would that             Muslims
make you? It would make you a murderer. And            • Archives
murderers need to be punished. So do these
terrorists. Stop apologizing for criminals and             □ October 2015
terrorists, and saying we need to respect their            □ May 2014
different world views. Personally I hate Christian         □ March 2013
fundies as much as I hate Muslim fundies; and I’m          □ October 2012
not trying to defend the silly movie, but                  □ September 2012
technically the movie isn’t illegal – or even              □ March 2012
hostile. It’s just a movie. We don’t need to kill          □ February 2012
people over it.                                            □ September 2011
                                                           □ August 2011
I thank Darwin that none of my fellow atheists go on       □ May 2011
killing sprees in the name of reason. Because if           □ April 2011
they eliminated all the unreasonable people, there         □ February 2011
wouldn’t be a whole lot people left.                       □ November 2010
                                                           □ October 2010
categoryPosted in Uncategorized | commentsNo               □ September 2010
Comments | moreRead More >>                                □ August 2010
Mar                                                        □ July 2010
28                                                         □ June 2010
2012                                                       □ May 2010
                                                           □ April 2010
Reason Rally: Veni, Vidi, Vici                             □ March 2010
                                                           □ February 2010
datePosted on 08:03, March 28th, 2012 by Kosmic Kurt       □ December 2009
                                                           □ November 2009
Below is a brief recap for those that missed the           □ October 2009
event and a reminder for those that did attend as to       □ September 2009
why we were there in the first place.                      □ August 2009
                                                           □ July 2009
If you weren’t there, what did you miss?                   □ June 2009
                                                           □ May 2009
In a word, everything! The reason Rally was the            □ April 2009
largest non-theistic convention ever. Never before         □ March 2009
have so many people and so many diverse groups             □ February 2009
within the freethought community come together for a       □ January 2009
single event. Officially there were just over 20,000       □ December 2008
people – give or take, according to the National           □ November 2008
Parks facility people. Make that, just over 20,000         □ September 2008
people on our feet for ten hours in the rain! We           □ August 2008
also all came together as atheists.                    • Blogroll

What did we see?                                           □ About
                                                           □ Amused Muse
Leaders from all of the sponsoring organizations           □ Atheism Examiner
like David Silverman, Dan Barker, and Ron Lindsay          □ Atheist Revolution
Comedians from Jamie Kilstein (I’m still sore from         □ Daylight Atheism
laughing) to Tim Minchin                                   □ Dwindling In
Musicians like Bad Religion, Tim Minchin, Shelly             Unbelief
Segal, and Andy Shernoff                                   □ Friendly Atheist
Advocate Scientists like Richard Dawkins, PZ Meyers,       □ God is for
and Lawrence Krauss                                          Suckers!
Celebrities like Bill Maher and Penn Jillette (via         □ Life Hacker
recorded video) and Adam Savage                            □ Natural Philosophy
Real life activist heroes like Jessica Ahlquist              of Life
and much more                                              □ No More Hornets
                                                           □ Pharyngula
Why?                                                       □ Rational Response
                                                             Kelly
To show our representatives in Washington, and the         □ Real Science Blog
world for that matter, that we exist. We exist and
we vote. Even in the rain, we stayed. We expressed     • Books We Recommend
our convictions and concerns. We also came together
as a unified community. We put to bed that asinine
saying that, “Getting non-believers together is like
herding cats.”  FFRF with AA with AHA with CFI, oh
my! Everyone put aside personal differences and bad
histories and came together for reason, logic and a
god-free lifestyle.

For those of us there, it was a profound emotional
experience that none of us will ever forget. In the
next few weeks there will be much commentary, blogs,
reports, YouTube posts and more. Check it out and
see what you missed. Whether you went or not, buy
the video. It will help support the event which was
funded by the organizations themselves along with a
matching donation from Todd Stiefel (we love you
Todd!).

What’s next?

Time to kick ass. Everyone left motivated and
pumped. We need to take that energy and translate it
to action. The American Atheists “Come Out” campaign
is all about atheists coming out. There has never
been a better time. We have the numbers and the
abilities to influence public policy on all levels.
We need to do that. We need to run for all public
offices. Atheists need to be on local school boards,
and in state assemblies. We can no longer sit on the
sidelines while our country goes to hell (excuse the
religious pun). The religious right has been
infiltrating our government since they came to power
in the early 1980’s. It’s time to take back our
country and restore “real” American values of moral
decency. As Penn Jillette so very eloquently
expressed, “We are the just and moral ones. We must
take the high moral ground and force the religious
to rise to our level.”

What did you do this past weekend? Me, I can to
Washington DC, I saw the largest gathering of
rational people in history, and I participated in
the event that will go down in history and the
beginning of the new enlightenment for the United
States. I came, I saw, I conquered.

categoryPosted in General | commentsNo Comments |
moreRead More >>
Feb
08
2012

Stand Up and Be Counted, Now!

datePosted on 12:23, February 8th, 2012 by Kosmic
Kurt

I have advocated before and will continue to
encourage people to stand up for their rights and be
true to their own world views. The sooner one
acknowledges that they no longer believe in fairy
tales and reside in the real world, the better.
However, now really is the time to speak up and be
counted.  On March 24, 2012 the entire secular
community is coming together for an unprecedented
event: The Reason Rally. Never before have all major
national organizations come together for such a
gathering. Sponsoring organizations of the event
include American atheists, The Center for Inquiry,
the Atheist Alliance of America, The Freedom from
Religion Foundation, the American Humanist
Association, Camp Quest, United COR, Secular
Coalition of America and others. The list of
featured speakers is unprecedented:  Richard
Dawkins, James Randi, PZ Meyers, Adam Savage, and
more. There will also be music by Tim Minchin and
Bad Religion

The Reason Rally takes place at the National Mall in
Washington DC. The event will be the single largest
gathering of rational non-theists in the history of
the world. If you are an atheist, humanist, or any
type of non-theist, you need to attend this event.

We talk often of imagining the day when atheists
will no longer be looked down upon, the day when
atheists will be respected and are able to really
hold political offices in all states. We talk about
a future world where superstitions and age-old dogma
no longer poisons the minds of humankind. That day
may be a long way off, but this event will take us
one giant step closer. Think of how it will feel to
stand shoulder-to-shoulder with fellow freethinkers.
Image how, many years from now, you will be able to
tell your children, or grandchildren, that you were
there. You were at the rally. Many of you have
attended national convections and know how much of a
charge you get from that. Now imagine something like
that only one hundred times bigger. Yes, there will
most likely be tens of thousands of atheists from
all over the world attending. One of them will be
me. I encourage each and every one of you to join
me, join your fellow freethinkers and show the world
that we exist. Stay tuned for more updates.

categoryPosted in General | commentsNo Comments |
moreRead More >>
Sep
10
2011

Skip The Praying and Remember 9/11 For What It Is

datePosted on 23:37, September 10th, 2011 by Kosmic
Kurt

Today, the entire nation is “celebrating” the tenth
anniversary of the terrorist attacks.

Once again the nation will come together in prayer.
Pray to God, the real god. The god that, oops,
forgot to lift a finger to help save any of the
thousands of innocent lives that were lost; the god
that failed to do anything to prevent the billions
of dollars of damage that was done. Yes, that god.
The god that the late comedian George Carlin called,
“Incompetent at best.” As I continually remind all
of those that I know, it was religion that caused
the destruction of the twin towers. It was religion
that took the lives of many innocent people that
day. It was a complete and unwavering dogmatic
belief in a flawed worldview based upon
misinterpretation of poorly written millennia-old
nonsense that caused the events of 9/11. It was the
exact same belief that caused millions to perish in
crusades and inquisitions. It is the same belief
that today takes the lives of children denied proper
medical care or cause them harm by torturing them
for being born in the first place. Islam, like
Christianity, is guilty of causing death and
destruction.

It’s easy to say, and many do, that it was Allah,
not Jesus, that was responsible for 9/11. Yes, the
terrorists were followers of Allah. The terrorists
were adherents of Islam, and in their mind, they
were carrying out their god’s will. But today,
millions of Americans will pray to Jesus (and some
to Allah, Yahweh, Vishnu, whoever) for thanks.
Hello? Any of you lemmings ever consider what you’re
doing? Thanks for what? For messing up and allowing
people to get killed? If God was in the work-place,
he would have been fired! Do not pray to an
ineffectual, sadistic monster. Rather, how about we
have a moment of silence to reflect upon how we lead
our lives. Rather than pray to non-existent deities,
why don’t we all make a pack with each other to
treat each other with love and respect. Instead of
praying to God to help prevent disasters (already
proven that it doesn’t work), let’s look to
ourselves. Let’s begin a new chapter in human social
development and hold people accountable for their
actions and look to the one proven entity that has
the power to make the world a better place to live –
us.

Ten years have come and gone since the tragic events
of 9/11 and most people still miss the point. If
religion had no stronghold, the twin towers would
still be here. Only religion could motivate someone
to commit such atrocities. And only religion can
cause the current wave of hatred that spreads
through our country like wildfires, accosting those
who have divergent views from the masses. The world
has many problems. But prayer is not the answer.
Prayer is the problem.

    With or without religion, you would have good
    people doing good things and evil people doing
    evil things. But for good people to do evil
    things, that takes religion.

    –Nobel Laureate Steven Weinberg, April 20^th
    1999

Only we have the power effect changes. Forget the
praying and do something constructive and positive.
Remember 9/11 for what it really is. A blatantly
powerful example of what religion is capable of.

[no-religion-300x284]

categoryPosted in General | comments1 Comment | more
Read More >>
Aug
09
2011

When Church and State Entangle

datePosted on 19:14, August 9th, 2011 by Kosmic Kurt

When government becomes entangled with religion,
disaster is the only result. This simple fact has
been demonstrated time and time again. There are no
winners – only losers. Recently I have been directly
involved in a church and state abuse in my own
community. Today is voting day for the recall
elections in Wisconsin. I will not be one of those
voting as I was forced to vote earlier by absentee
ballot. The abuse I had to endure during my last
voting experience precludes me from voting at my
designated polling station. As I wrote about in an
earlier post, St. Paul’s Evangelical Lutheran Church
in the Village of Brown Deer put a Christian cross
on the wall in the voting room between portraits of
Presidents Washington and Lincoln. I complained to
the Village Manager who did respond very cordially
and promised to correct the problem. I was happy and
satisfied. Well, at our most recent public election,
not only was the cross still there but I now had the
displeasure of looking at a “Happy Jesus Face” as
well. This time I complained on the spot and was
belittled and rebuffed in front of my neighbors by
the president of the church. He emphatically
declared that he would not remove anything and that
no one could make him do otherwise. The entire
experience was very unsettling to me and caused me a
great deal of discomfort. So began the emails from
me to the village board and the village attorney. I
reached out to FFRF, AU and the ACLU for help as
well. To date, only FFRF has written a letter on my
behalf. The emails I have sent have been met with
mixed responses; some cordial, some not so cordial.
Nothing has been done to move the election site yet,
but I am told that options are being considered. So
I voted by absentee ballot and vowed not to enter
St. Paul’s again. The hardest part of my ordeal is
explaining to people why church and state should be
kept separate. So many people just don’t get it. So
many foolish people really think that the United
States was founded as a Christian Nation. To those
misguided individuals I offer the following:

The United States was founded by people who left
England because they did NOT want to be told that
they had to belong to the Church of England. The
Church of England had long since severed ties with
the Roman Catholic Church and had created its own
brand of Christianity. Our founding fathers wanted
to make sure that people could choose which, if any,
god to pray to. Thomas Jefferson put it best when he
wrote,

    Believing with you that religion is a matter
    which lies solely between Man & his God, that he
    owes account to none other for his faith or his
    worship, that the legitimate powers of
    government reach actions only, & not opinions, I
    contemplate with sovereign reverence that act of
    the whole American people which declared that
    their legislature should “make no law respecting
    an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the
    free exercise thereof,” thus building a wall of
    separation between Church & State. Adhering to
    this expression of the supreme will of the
    nation in behalf of the rights of conscience, I
    shall see with sincere satisfaction the progress
    of those sentiments which tend to restore to man
    all his natural rights, convinced he has no
    natural right in opposition to his social
    duties.

    Thomas Jefferson

    Jan. 1. 1802

People who are ignorant in the matter of Jefferson’s
Wall really need to stop preaching their nonsense
and start thinking. The whole point of the First
Amendment is to protect the rights of all citizens.
It protects churches from being told what to do by
the government. It protects individuals from being
told which church they have to belong to. It states
categorically that the government will not endorse
one religion over another. By keeping church and
state separate everyone one wins.

Below are pictures of the debacle at St. Paul’s
Evangelical Lutheran Church where voting for my
district takes place. If anyone would like to
contact the Village of Brown Deer the website is
listed below. I would ask that if you do contact the
village or any officials please be courteous and
polite. I am engaged in dialog with the village and
this my community where my family and I reside.
Rather than spewing negative rhetoric, I am working
hard to crate a positive change that will benefit
everyone.

Village of Brown Deer

[Photo0041-300x225][Photo005-300x225]

categoryPosted in General | commentsNo Comments |
moreRead More >>
May
03
2011

Bin Laden Dumped At Sea. Good!

datePosted on 19:33, May 3rd, 2011 by Kosmic Kurt

The latest foolishness in the bin Laden saga is that
Muslim clerics in Saudi Arabia, and elsewhere, are
complaining that the United States did not follow
appropriate Islamic procedures when the body of bin
Laden was dumped into the sea. Well I got news for
all of the ignorant wining Muslim clerics, “too bad,
none of your F’n business.” A killer was killed and
disposed of in accordance with common sense – much
more important than your silly outdated customs. I
applaud the United States military in the handling
of the disposal of their trash. Actually I would not
have even announced to anyone how or where the body
was disposed of. Bin Laden is already seen as a
martyr by many. Having his body around for
inspiration would be a colossal disaster. The body
should just have been destroyed. It bothers me that
our government would even make such a stupid
statement that “the body was handled with respect.”
Why? Perhaps because we want to show the world that
we are not barbaric animals like the thug bin Laden
was. Or maybe because we want to show the world that
we respect others religious customs.

Well it’s done. Perhaps we can move on and deal with
the fact that bin Laden or not, religion (Islam in
this case), is still a dangerous threat to the
security of all humankind. Bin Laden was evil.
However, his evil was easily justified by his
religion. Just as Thomas Aquinas justified torturing
and killing millions of innocents, just as Moses
justified committing genocide against the
Midianites. All this and more done in the name of
religion.

categoryPosted in General | comments1 Comment | more
Read More >>
123456789Next

        Recent Posts:                              Tag Cloud Meta

          • Columbus Christianity Day                          • Log in
          • Supreme Court Rules in Favor of Prayer
          • New Pope, Same Old Church
          • On Rape, Religion, and Republicans

                                       
                  (C) 2008 Atheist Realm
Starscape Theme   StarScape Theme (1.5.11: Scorpius) | Design by: GDragoN
                  Powered by: Wordpress Valid XHTML Valid CSS

