Common Sense Atheism

Atheism is just the beginning;
now it's time to solve the harder questions.
[earth]

  • Posts
  • Contents
  • About
  • Archives

My new personal blog: LukeMuehlhauser.com

by Luke Muehlhauser on June 2, 2014 in News

I’m blogging again, at LukeMuehlhauser.com.

Its RSS feed lives here.

The most substantial post there so far is “The Riddle of Being or Nothingness.”

{ 0 comments }

Where You Can Find Me

by Luke Muehlhauser on July 12, 2012 in News

This is probably the last post on CommonSenseAtheism.com, which is now merely
an archive of posts.

In July 2012 I launched WorldviewNaturalism.com. It’s a small, simple site — an
ideal place to send your friends when you want to introduce them to naturalism.

You can track my writings around the web via my personal website’s news page (
RSS). I mostly write on Less Wrong and the MIRI blog.

{ 0 comments }

Common Sense Atheism: The Archive

by Luke Muehlhauser on February 5, 2012 in Indexes,News,Resources

Common Sense Atheism has closed its doors. Comments are turned off and there
will be no new posts.

I will keep the debates page updated, so feel free to notify me of new debates.

The site will remain online as an archive. See the Contents page for a quick
view of the site’s main attractions.

You can keep up with my work on a variety of websites at lukeprog.com, which
has an RSS feed that will alert you to my new works when they are published. If
nothing else, you’ll want to subscribe to that feed so you are notified when
WorldviewNaturalism.com goes live. You can also follow my Twitter page.

{ 0 comments }

Farewell, Dear Friends

by Luke Muehlhauser on January 28, 2012 in News

Common Sense Atheism is closing its doors.

It’s been a great ride, and my interests have now turned elsewhere.

I’ll keep comments open for about a week, and then comments on the site will be
closed, but this site will remain online as an archive. I also plan to keep the
debates page updated.

{ 96 comments }

Eagerly Anticipated

by Luke Muehlhauser on January 23, 2012 in News

Updated February 13, 2012.

Allow me to indulge in some anticipation…

My most eagerly anticipated books

  • Frankish & Ramsey (eds.), Cambridge Handbook of Artificial Intelligence 
    (2012)
  • Frankish & Ramsey (eds.), Cambridge Handbook of Cognitive Science (2012)
  • Holyoak & Morrison, Oxford Handbook of Thinking and Reasoning (2012)
  • Thagard, The Cognitive Science of Science: Explanation, Discovery, and
    Conceptual Change (2012)
  • Bostrom, Superintelligence: Groundwork to a Strategic Analysis of Machine
    Intelligence Revolution (2012)
  • Eden et al. (eds.), The Singularity Hypothesis: A Scientific and
    Philosophical Assessment (2012)
  • Yudkowsky, How to Actually Change Your Mind and The Art of Rationality 
    (2012?)
  • Drexler, Radical Abundance (2012)
  • Greene, The Moral Brain and How to Use It (2012)
  • Panskepp & Biven, The Archaeology of Mind (2012)

My most eagerly anticipated films

  • Anderson, The Master (2012)
  • Blomkamp, Elysium (2012)
  • Kaufman, Frank or Francis (2012)
  • Nolan, The Dark Knight Rises (2012)
  • Cuarón, Gravity (2012)
  • Spielberg, Robopocalypse (2013)

What are you most eagerly anticipating?

{ 96 comments }

← Previous Entries

  • [To search, type and ] 

  • Categories

    [Select Category           ]
  • My Books

                                  [design-a-boo]

  • Best of CSA

    Essentials

    Essentials

      □ Why This Blog is Different
      □ My Story
      □ Philosophy Podcast
      □ Morality Podcast
      □ Why Christianity is False
    Popular

    Popular

      □ Atheism Debates
      □ Christian Belief
      □ Recommended Books
      □ Dead Gods
    Debated

    Debated

      □ Atheists Are Hypocrites
      □ How to Defeat Religious Arguments
      □ Theistic Morality
      □ Who Designed the Designer?

Thesis Theme customized by Guerrilla   Creative Commons
