Cross Examined

Clear thinking about Christianity

Cross Examined
Search [                    ] [Search]
Main menu

Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content

  • Home
  • About
      □ All Posts
      □ Glossary
  • The Book “Cross Examined”
      □ Review by Dr. Robert Price

Post navigation

← Older posts

We’ve Moved!

Posted on August 7, 2012 by Bob Seidensticker
Reply

[patheos200]It’s been a great first year for Cross Examined, but it’s time for
a move. This blog is moving to Patheos, one of the largest religion sites on
the internet. It has portals featuring material on lots of other religions,
including over 100 blogs. I invite you to continue following the blog at the
new site.

All the old content will remain here, but new posts will be only at the new
site: http://www.patheos.com/blogs/crossexamined/

If you’ve signed up for email notification, there are two ways to do that at
Patheos. You can sign up for notification of all Patheos atheist blogs (right
side, top) or just Cross Examined (right side, scroll down a couple of pages).

Please join me at the new site!

                                         No matter where you go … there you are
                                                              — Buckaroo Banzai

Share this:

  • Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • 

Posted in Atheism | Tagged Patheos | Leave a reply

Who Would Die for a Lie?

Posted on August 6, 2012 by Bob Seidensticker
12

[st-bartstatue]Almost all of the original apostles that surrounded Jesus died
martyr’s deaths. If they knew that he was just a regular guy and that the
resurrection story was fiction, why would they go to their deaths supporting
it? Lee Strobel said that though people may die defending their beliefs,
“People will not die for their religious beliefs if they know that their
religious beliefs are false.”

While people have died for lies—the 9/11 hijackers, for example, or the
Heaven’s Gate cult—they didn’t know it was a lie. That the apostles were in a
position to know and still died defending it is strong evidence that the Jesus
story is accurate.

Or, at least this is the story Christians tell themselves.

There are several issue here, but let’s focus first on the big one: how do we
know how the apostles died? Since their dying as martyrs is key to this
apologetic, you’d think that this was well established in history. But as we’ve
seen (“Is Mark an Eyewitness Account?”), sometimes Christian historical claims
have a very weak pedigree.

Our one-stop shopping source for this question is historian Hippolytus of Rome
(170–235) in his “On the Twelve Apostles.” At best, this is an early second
century work written close to 150 years after the facts it claims to document.
At worst, it was written even later by an unknown author (called
“Pseudo-Hippolytus” by historians) and deliberately or inadvertently compiled
with the writings of Hippolytus.

Here’s the summary:

  • 4 apostles were crucified: Andrew, Bartholomew, Peter, and Philip (the last
    three upside down).
  • 3 were killed in some other way: James the son of Alpheus was stoned, James
    the son of Zebedee was killed with a sword (presumably decapitated), and
    Thomas was killed by spear.
  • 5 died natural deaths: John, Matthew, Matthias (the new twelfth disciple
    added after Judas left the group), Simon the Zealot, and Judas the son of
    James (Thaddeus).

Another popular source for this information is John Foxe’s Book of Martyrs,
first published in 1563 and in many later editions. Its late age, 1500 years
after the events, is enough to disqualify it since we have the earlier account,
but its popularity makes it an important source. To a large extent Foxe was
simply a mouthpiece for the anti-Catholic sentiment in England at the time, and
many sources dismiss its accuracy (Wikipedia, 1911 Britannica, Catholic
Encyclopedia).

Foxe largely agrees with Hippolytus on the deaths of the apostles except for
the ones that Hippolytus says died natural deaths, giving that fate only to
John. He says that Matthew was “slain with a halberd” in Ethiopia, Matthias was
stoned in Jerusalem and beheaded, Simon the Zealot was crucified in Britain,
and Judas the son of James was crucified in what is now eastern Turkey.

James the son of Zebedee seems to have the oldest martyrdom story. Hippolytus
probably got his account from Acts 12:2, written in the latter half of the
first century, which says that Herod Agrippa (grandson of Herod the Great)
killed him “with the sword.”

For most of the other apostles, however, contradictory stories cloud the issue.
For example, Bartholomew’s death is documented in a number of contradictory
ways. One account says that he was beaten and then drowned. The Martyrdom of
Bartholomew (c. 500) says that he was beaten and then beheaded. The most
popular, perhaps because it’s the most gruesome, is that he was skinned alive
and then crucified (or perhaps beheaded).

Various sources add to the story of Matthias. He was crucified in Ethiopia. Or
he was blinded by cannibals but rescued by Andrew. Or he died a natural death
in Georgia on the coast of the Black Sea.

Simon the Zealot might have been sawn in half in Persia. Or crucified in
Samaria. Or martyred in Georgia.

Add to this:

  • the many additional contradictory stories about other apostles not included
    in this brief list,
  • the decades-long period of oral history from event to writing, and
  • the time span, usually centuries-long, between the original manuscripts
    documenting the martyrdom stories and our oldest copies that make those
    copies suspect.

What can we conclude given this evidential house of cards? Only that “most
apostles were martyred for their faith” is historically almost indefensible.

And it’s not just that the claim for any particular martyrdom story is flimsy;
it’s that we can be certain that many of them are false because they contradict
each other.

Let’s pause for a moment to savor this lesson. “Tradition holds that” or “The
Church tells us that” is never enough—be sure to look behind the curtain to see
what evidence actually supports a historic claim.

“Who would die for a lie?” I dunno—first establish that someone died at all.

                            Martyrdom has always been a proof of the intensity,
                                         never of the correctness, of a belief.
                                                — Arthur Schnitzler (1862–1931)

Photo credit: Wikimedia

Related links:

  • “Would someone die for what they knew was a lie?” Iron Chariots Wiki.
  • “‘Die for a Lie’ won’t Fly” Debunking Christianity, 5/11/06.
  • Robert M. Price, “Would the Apostles Die for a Lie?”
  • “What happened to the 12 disciples of Jesus?” icthus.com.
  • Lee Strobel, “Would Someone Die For A Lie?” YouTube, 3/16/07.
  • John Foxe, Book of Martyrs full text, Project Gutenberg.

Share this:

  • Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • 

Posted in Christianity, History | Tagged Andrew, Apostle, Bartholomew, Foxe's
Book of Martyrs, Hippolytus of Rome, John, Judas, Lee Strobel, Martyr, Matthew,
Matthias, Peter, Phillip, Robert M. Price, Simon the Zealot | 12 Replies

God’s Diminishing Power

Posted on August 4, 2012 by Bob Seidensticker
2

[godspower]

In the beginning … God walked in the Garden of Eden like an ordinary
supernatural Joe. He dropped by Abraham’s for a cup of coffee and a chat. He
didn’t know what was up in Sodom and Gomorrah and had to send out angelic
scouts for reconnaissance: “The outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is so great
and their sin so grievous that I will go down and see if what they have done is
as bad as the outcry that has reached me” (Gen. 18:20–21).

But, like Stalin gradually collecting titles, God has now become omniscient and
omnipotent. He’s gone from needing six days to shape a world from Play-Doh and
sprinkle tiny stars in the dome of heaven to creating 100 billion galaxies,
each with 100 billion stars.

That’s 6,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 kg
of universe.

And yet, oddly, his biblical demonstrations of power faded with time. From
creating the universe, he’s weakened such that appearing in a grilled cheese
sandwich is about as much as he can pull off today. He has the fiery reputation
of the Wizard of Oz but is now just the man behind the curtain.

Even God’s punishments became wimpier. A global flood, with millions dead is
pretty badass. Personally smiting Sodom and Gomorrah is impressive, though
that’s a big step down in magnitude.

And it’s downhill from there—God simply orders the destruction of Canaanite
cities, and to punish Israel and Judah, he allows Assyria and then Babylon to
invade. As Jesus, he doesn’t kick much more butt than cursing a fig tree, and
today he simply stands by to let bad things happen.

Maybe God’s power diminishes as the universe’s dark energy increases?

Photo credit: Why There is no God

Share this:

  • Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • 

Posted in Christianity, Cosmology | Tagged God's Power, Sodom and Gomorrah | 2
Replies

Dr Johnson: Legend, Myth, and More

Posted on August 1, 2012 by Bob Seidensticker
3

Jesus, God, and all thatLet’s straighten out some of the terms used in the
study of religion, the supernatural, and related topics.  I know I’ve not
always used the terms precisely, so this is a chance to make amends.

We’ll begin with the big category, folklore.  This is the traditional knowledge
or forms of expression of a culture passed on from person to person.  Folklore
can be material (quilts, traditional costumes, recipes, the hex signs on Amish
barns, etc.), behavioral (customs such as throwing rice at a wedding, what
constitutes good manners, superstitions, etc.), or traditional stories.

Traditional stories is itself a large category, containing music, anecdotes,
ghost stories, parables, popular misconceptions, and other things you might not
think of.

Now on to the kinds of traditional stories that are most interesting to
apologetics.  These terms can overlap quite a bit, so consider these
definitions approximations.  First, let’s consider stories seen as true (or
plausibly so) by their hearers.

  • Legends are grounded in history and can change over time.  They can include
    miracles.  Urban legends are a modern category of legends that don’t
    include miracles, are set in or near the present day, and take the form of
    a cautionary tale.
  • Myths are sacred narratives that explain some aspect of reality (for
    example: the myth of Prometheus explains why we have fire and the Genesis
    creation myth explains where everything came from).  Epic poems such as
    Beowulf and the Odyssey are one kind of myth.

The difference between legends and myths is that a legend is set in a more
recent time and generally features human characters, while myths are set in the
distant past and have supernatural characters.  Some stories are mixtures of
the two—the Iliad tells the story of a real city, and the characters include
gods, humans with supernatural powers, and ordinary humans.

Lady Godiva, King Arthur, William Tell, and Atlantis are examples of
legends—the stories have human characters and are set in a historic past. 
Myths include the stories of Hercules and Zeus, Hindu mythology, the Noah
story, and the creation stories of dozens of cultures—they have gods as
characters and are set in a distant or undefined past.

Let’s take a brief detour to look at a few relevant terms that are not part of
the category of traditional stories.

  • Religion starts with the sacred narratives of mythology and adds beliefs
    and practices.  Myth and scripture are both sacred, but scripture is the
    writings themselves.  Doctrine is codified teaching, and dogma is that
    mandatory subset of the doctrine that must be believed for one to be a
    member.
  • Superstition is any belief that relies on a supernatural (instead of
    natural) cause like astrology, omens to predict the future, magic, or
    witchcraft.  It can also be defined as the unfounded supernatural beliefs
    of the other guy’s religion (not your own, of course).  Merriam-Webster
    defines it as “a belief or practice resulting from ignorance, fear of the
    unknown, trust in magic or chance, or a false conception of causation.”

Finally, let’s consider stories understood by their hearers to not be true.

  • Fables have a particular kind of character: nonhumans such as animals,
    plants, inanimate objects, or forces of nature that have human-like
    qualities.  Fables end with a moral.
  • Fairy tales also have particular characters: fantasy characters such as
    fairies, goblins, and elves.  Magic is also an element.  There is no
    connection with historic time (it begins “Once upon a time …”).
  • Parables are plausible stories with plausible characters (no talking rocks,
    no magic) that are not presented as true.  Parables illustrate a moral or
    religious principle.

Photo credit: Wikimedia

Related posts:

  • See all the definitions in the Cross Examined Glossary.

Related links:

  • “Literary or Profane Legends,” New Advent.

Share this:

  • Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • 

Posted in Words | Tagged Doctrine, Dogma, Fable, Fairy Tale, Folklore, Lady
Godiva, Legends, Myths, Parable, Paul Bunyan, Scripture, Superstition,
Traditional Stories, Urban Legends, William Tell | 3 Replies

OK, Smart Guy—YOU Tell Us What Happened

Posted on July 30, 2012 by Bob Seidensticker
12

Is Jesus the son of God?I’ve been on the offensive with a series of posts on
the historicity of the New Testament.  In conversations with Christians,
however, I’ve been asked variations of this: “Okay, smart guy: you make clear
that you don’t want to interpret the gospel story as literally true.  Enlighten
us then—how do you explain the facts?  What do you think happened?”

That’s a fair question, and I’m happy to make a claim and defend it.  Even if
you accept my contention that the Bible is just legend and that the
supernatural stuff didn’t happen—that it’s the surviving fragments of the blog
of a prescientific tribe of people who lived two to three thousand years
ago—that only tells us what didn’t happen.

So what did happen?  That the New Testament exists is undeniable; what explains
it?  Here we go.

1.     Jesus lived.  The Christ Myth Theory, which argues there is insufficient
evidence for a historical Jesus, is another possibility, but the simplest
argument seems to be that a real man grounded the Jesus story.  It’s easy to
imagine false legend being built on a foundation of an actual person in
history.

2.     Jesus was an influential rabbi who had a following.  He was killed, and
stories grew up about him after he died.

3.     The stories were passed from person to person orally for decades,
eventually touching thousands or tens of thousands of people.  The religion
spread quickly by evangelism and trade through the Ancient Near East, from
Palestine to Egypt, Syria, Asia Minor, Greece, Italy, and beyond.

4.     The stories were corrupted as they went.  Some of this might have been
inadvertent, but some was deliberate.  Embellishments were added to improve the
story, either to satisfy imagined or real prophecy from the Old Testament (for
a Jewish audience) or to duplicate a supernatural feature of a competing Greek,
Mesopotamian, or Egyptian religion (for a gentile audience).  Starting from a
Jewish community that spoke Aramaic, it found a home in a far-flung community
that was culturally Greek.

5.     Christianity relied initially on oral history.  After decades, when it
became clear that the imminent second coming wasn’t coming, the apocalyptic
element of the religion was toned down, the religion settled in for the long
haul, and the stories were committed to parchment.  A handful of these gospels
were written in the first century, including the four that made it into the New
Testament.  Dozens more were added in the following centuries.

6.     Some of these later gospels were benign, but others were dangerously
incompatible.  A Christian community that accepted one tradition might consider
another community heretical, and vice versa.  Church fathers wrote books
against particular heresies: Irenaeus wrote against Gnosticism, Tertullian
against Marcionism, and Origen against Platonism.  Different philosophies were
debated, and the collection of dogmas that we think of today as orthodox
Christianity was hardly the obvious winner.

  • In opposition to Paul, the Ebionites saw Jesus as preaching an extension of
    Judaism, not a new religion.  Paul himself documents this internal
    disagreement in the debate over circumcision (Gal. 6:12–13).
  • Other heresies fragmented the church before the Council of Nicaea—Montanism
    (an early kind of Pentecostalism), Nicolationism (hedonism), Antinomianism
    (an extreme view of salvation through faith alone), Sabellianism (Jesus and
    God the Father were not distinct persons but two aspects of one person),
    Doceticism (Jesus was only spirit, and his humanness was an illusion),
    Arianism (Jesus didn’t always exist but was a created being), rejection of
    Trinitarianism (God exists in three persons), and others.  But of course
    these were heresies only from the standpoint of the church that eventually
    emerged victorious.

7.     The gospels and epistles were copied over the years and modified in
small and large ways to adapt to different communities’ beliefs.

8.     What we think of as the official Christian canon of books was largely
fixed at the Council of Nicaea in 325.

Point out anything that doesn’t fit, but this sketch best explains the facts as
far as I can tell.  It is far more plausible than accepting the gospel stories
as history.

Read the first post in this series: What Did the Original Books of the Bible
Say?

                                 The word “belief” is a difficult thing for me.
                I don’t believe. I must have a reason for a certain hypothesis.
                                           [If] I know a thing, then I know it.
                                                   I don’t need to believe it. 
                                                                    — Carl Jung

Photo credit: fradaveccs

Share this:

  • Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • 

Posted in Atheism, Christianity | Tagged Antinomianism, Arianism, Christ Myth
Theory, Council of Nicaea, Docetism, Ebionites, Gnosticism, Gospel, Heresy,
Irenaeus, Life of Jesus, Marcionism, Montanism, New Testament, Nicolationism,
Noncanonical gospels, Origen, Sabelianism, Tertullian, Trinitarianism | 12
Replies

The Evolving Jesus Story

Posted on July 27, 2012 by Bob Seidensticker
13

Christian apologetics - does God exist?If the gospel story were true, it
wouldn’t change with time. God’s personality wouldn’t change, God’s plan of
salvation wouldn’t change, and the details of the Jesus story wouldn’t change.
But the New Testament books themselves document the evolution of the Jesus
story. Sort them chronologically to see.

Paul’s epistles precede Mark, the earliest gospel, by almost 20 years. The only
miracle that Paul mentions is the resurrection (1 Cor. 15:4). Were the miracle
stories so well known within his different churches that he didn’t need to
mention them? It doesn’t look like it.

    Jews demand miraculous signs and Greeks look for wisdom, but we preach
    Christ crucified: a stumbling block to Jews and foolishness to Gentiles (1
    Cor. 1:22–3).

The Jews demand signs? That’s not a problem. Paul had loads of Jesus miracles
to pick from. But wait a minute—if the Jesus story is a stumbling block to
miracle-seeking Jews, then Paul must not know of any miracles.

Miracles come later, with the gospels. Looking at them chronologically, notice
how the divinity of Jesus evolves. He becomes divine with the baptism in Mark;
then in Matthew and Luke, he’s divine at birth; and in John, he’s been divine
since the beginning of time.

The four gospels were snapshots of the Jesus story as told in four different
communities at four different times. Because the synoptic (“looking in the same
direction”) gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke share so much source material,
their similarity is not surprising. Nevertheless, 35% of Luke comes uniquely
from its community (such as the parables of the Good Samaritan and the Prodigal
Son), and 20% of Matthew is unique (such as Jesus and his family fleeing to
Egypt after his birth and the zombies that walked after Jesus’s death). And, of
course, John is quite different from these three, having Gnostic and (arguably)
Marcionite elements.

This synoptic similarity undercuts the argument that the gospels are eyewitness
accounts. If the authors of Matthew and Luke were eyewitnesses, why would they
copy so heavily from Mark? The authorship question (that Mark really wrote
Mark, etc.) that grounds the claims that the gospels record eyewitness history
is another tenuous element of the evolving story, as I’ve written before.

The gospels don’t even claim to be eyewitnesses (with the exception of a vague
reference in John 21:24, in a chapter that appears to have been added by a
later author). And even if they had, would that make a difference? Would
tacking on “I Bartholomew was a witness to all that follows” to a gospel story
make it more believable?

Would it make the story of Merlin the wizard more believable?

Consider some of the noncanonical gospels that include attributions. “I Simon
Peter and Andrew my brother took our nets and went to the sea” is from the
Gospel of Peter, and “I Thomas, an Israelite, write you this account” is from
the Infancy Gospel of Thomas. These gospels are rejected both by the church and
by scholars despite these claims of eyewitness testimony. Why then imagine that
the vague “This is the disciple who testifies to these things and who wrote
them down; we know that his testimony is true” (John 21:24) adds anything to
John?

There are dozens of noncanonical gospels. Christian churches reject these in
part because they were written late. But if we agree that the probable
second-century authorship for (say) the gospels of Thomas, Judas, and James is
a problem because stories change with time, then why do the four canonical
gospels get a pass? If the gospel of John, written 60 years after the
resurrection, is reliable despite being a preposterous story, why reject
Thomas, written just a few decades later?

The answer, it seems, is simply that Thomas doesn’t fit the mold of the version
of Christianity that happened to win. History, even the imagined history of
religion, is written by the victors.

Read the first post in this series: What Did the Original Books of the Bible
Say?

                                            God made everything out of nothing,
                                              but the nothingness shows through
                                                                  — Paul Valery

Photo credit: Wikimedia

Related posts:

  • Is Mark an Eyewitness Account?

Share this:

  • Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • 

Posted in Christianity, History | Tagged Canonical Gospels, Evolution of
Christianity, Evolving Christianity, Gnostic, Gospels, John, Luke, Marcionite,
Mark, Matthew, miracles, Noncanonical | 13 Replies

Post navigation

← Older posts

This Blog Is

An energetic but civil critique of Christianity from an atheist viewpoint.

Buy the Book

"Cross Examined" by Bob Seidensticker
“Cross Examined is a great read on two fronts. You won’t find a better book on
Christian apologetics and the rebuttals ... and the story is compelling, with a
startling climax. Highly recommended.”
— Paul Gabel, author of Inventing Jesus

Follow via Email

Enter your email address to receive notifications of new posts by email.

Email Address

[Sign me up!]

Follow via Twitter

[t_small-a]

RSS Feed RSS - Posts

RSS Feed RSS - Comments

Recent Posts

  • We’ve Moved!
  • Who Would Die for a Lie?
  • God’s Diminishing Power
  • Dr Johnson: Legend, Myth, and More
  • OK, Smart Guy—YOU Tell Us What Happened
  • The Evolving Jesus Story
  • Dr Johnson: The Angel of Mons
  • How Decades of Oral Tradition Produced the Gospels
  • Is Mark an Eyewitness Account?
  • Project Reason Video Contest
  • Word of the Day: Atheist’s Wager
  • Infinity—Nothing to Trifle With (2 of 2)
  • Infinity—Nothing to Trifle With
  • Gay Marriage Inevitable?
  • Witch Hunts, Sex Scandals, and the Atheist Community
  • The Truth of the Bible
  • Word of the Day: Russell’s Teapot
  • God is Nonexistent
  • God is as Believable as Unicorns
  • Word of the Day: Shibboleth

Categories

  • Atheism (44)
  • Debate (6)
  • History (15)
  • Humor (14)
  • Religion (103)
      □ Christianity (98)
          ☆ Apologetics (6)
      □ Other Religions (2)
  • Science (18)
      □ Cosmology (3)
      □ Evolution (4)
  • Skepticism (17)
  • Social Issues (54)
      □ Abortion (12)
      □ Creationism/ID (7)
      □ Homosexuality (12)
      □ Separation of Church and State (20)
  • Uncategorized (4)
  • Words (28)

Lots more posts!

Click on "Older posts."

Subscribe to Blog via Email

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of
new posts by email.

Join 90 other subscribers

Email Address

[Subscribe]

Proudly powered by WordPress
Send to Email Address Your Name [                    ] Your Email Address 
[                         ] loading [Send Email] Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
