Everyday Rationality

A blog about science, skepticism, atheism, secular parenting, and applying the
principles of rationality in everyday life.
[cropped-stockvault-boxes98173]
Skip to content

  • Home
  • About

← Older posts

A Response to Dennis Garvin’s ‘Reflections of A Former Darwinist’

Posted on September 10, 2015 by Casey

15117673210_1849571718_oThis post is a response to a piece written by Dennis
Garvin in the Roanoke Star on August 31st called Reflections of a former
Darwinist. In it, I hope to address some of the claims that Dennis makes about
evolution and what he sees as its implications, as he requested in the comment
section of the article.

As the title of the piece would suggest, Dennis no longer believe in the
reality of evolution. He came to reject it in his mid thirties. Why? Because
altruism exists. Continue reading →

Posted in Atheism, Evolution, Morality, Science | Tagged Altruism, Creationism,
Dennis Garvin, Evolution, Reflections of a Former Darwinist, Roanoke Star | 
Leave a comment

Transgender Rights Argument Erupts at Missouri High School

Posted on September 1, 2015 by Casey
Transgender student Lila Perry

Hillsboro Senior Lila Perry

The right of a transgender student to use the restroom of the gender she
identifies with is being disputed by members of the local community at Hillboro
High School in Missouri. Lila Perry, a senior at Hillsboro High, came out as
transgender last year. Since that time, she had been using a unisex restroom.
Since Perry identifies as a female, she informed school teachers and
administrators this year that she desired to be treated like the other female
students, which included access to female restrooms and locker rooms.

Continue reading →

Posted in Gender, LGBT Rights, Politics, Uncategorized | Tagged Hillsboro High
School, Lila Perry, Transgender Rights | Leave a comment

The Godless Delusion – Introduction

Posted on August 27, 2015 by Casey

GodlessDelusionpp. 7-9     The Godless Delusion‘s introduction recounts the
first experience that Patrick Madrid had with an atheist when he was a young
boy of 11. A next door neighbor was driving his sister and him home as a favor
for their mother, and young Patrick apparently made the tragic mistake of
mentioning God in front of her.

    “God?” She gave a snort. “You believe in God, huh?”

    “Yes…” I said timidly, confused by the sharp note of derision that so
    suddenly had entered her voice.

    “Well, there’s no such thing as God,” she snapped. “He doesn’t exist, and
    people who believe in God believe in a myth.” (p. 7)

Is it possible that this interaction occurred exactly as Madrid recounts?
Absolutely. But, on the other hand, this interaction strikes me as the sort of
anecdote that believers often offer up to show how mean and angry atheists are
in their interactions with Christians. Continue reading →

Posted in Atheism, Book Review, Christianity | Tagged Kenneth Hensley, Patrick
Madrid, The Godless Delusion | Leave a comment

Book Review: The Godless Delusion

Posted on August 26, 2015 by Casey

GodlessDelusionOne of the things I want this blog to be is an atheist’s
perspective and response to different Christian apologetic books and articles,
which I have already started to do on a smaller scale. One of the things that
often occurs when talking about religion and atheism with Christians is that
they will often say “I have a book you should read.” And I get this. Most
assume that we’re only atheists because we haven’t been presented the right
information. And part of being a freethinker is actually engaging with ideas
one doesn’t automatically agree with. We should always challenge ourselves to
learn more, and to always be open to the possibility that we are mistaken in
our reasoning.

My first foray into responding to Christian apologetics is going to be The
Godless Delusion: A Catholic Challenge to Modern Atheism by Patrick Madrid and
Kenneth Hensley. Continue reading →

Posted in Atheism, Book Review, Christianity | Tagged Kenneth Hensley, Patrick
Madrid, The Godless Delusion | Leave a comment

The Logical Christian? A Response

Posted on August 19, 2015 by Casey
11047106756_7499efcc1e_o

Not Al Neuhauser

I read an opinion piece today called “The Logical Christian” in the Lake
Country Now out of Wisconsin, written by an Al Neuhauser. Al thinks very highly
of himself, which makes the entire piece even more amazing. Neuhauser presents
fallacy after fallacy after inaccuracy after fallacy, to the point that its
almost hard to read. Al provides so much to respond to. He begins: Continue
reading →

Posted in Atheism, Christianity, Evolution, Science | Tagged A Logical
Christian, Al Neuhauser, Eagle's Eye, Lake Country NOW | Leave a comment
← Older posts

  • Search

    Search for: [                    ] [Search]
  • Follow Us

    facebookrss
  • Recent Posts

      □ A Response to Dennis Garvin’s ‘Reflections of A Former Darwinist’
      □ Transgender Rights Argument Erupts at Missouri High School
      □ The Godless Delusion – Introduction
      □ Book Review: The Godless Delusion
      □ The Logical Christian? A Response
  • Archives

      □ September 2015
      □ August 2015
      □ July 2015
      □ June 2015
      □ May 2015
  • Categories

      □ Atheism
      □ Book Review
      □ Christianity
      □ Evolution
      □ Faith
      □ Free Will
      □ Gender
      □ LGBT Rights
      □ Military Issues
      □ Morality
      □ Politics
      □ Science
      □ Secular Issues
      □ Uncategorized
  • Meta

      □ Log in
      □ Entries RSS
      □ Comments RSS
      □ WordPress.org
  • 

  • Copyright 2015 Everyday Rationality. All rights reserved.

  • 

Everyday Rationality
Proudly powered by WordPress.
