[1427396980]

  • Home
  • Blog
  • Philosophy
  • Publications
  • Contact



ZOMBIES AND HELL                                            Archives

12/4/2015                                                   December 2015
                                                            November 2015
0 Comments                                                  October 2015
                                                            September 2015
                                                            August 2015
Picture                                                     July 2015
Jonathan M. S. Pearce's The Problem with “God” (which       May 2015
I'm currently reading) contains many interesting            April 2015
arguments and plenty of food for thought. And one of        March 2015
these arguments – due to Reasonable Doubts' Justin          February 2015
Schieber – presents a very serious challenge to anyone      January 2015
who believes both that God knows the future and that        December 2014
there is a hell.                                            November 2014
                                                            October 2014
There is an obvious difficulty for anyone who believes      September 2014
both of these things. For suppose that we divide            August 2014
everyone in the world into two groups: A, those who are     July 2014
saved, and B, those who are damned. If God knows ahead      June 2014
of time who is going to saved and who isn't, it seems
he could have created a world with only the members of      Categories
A in it. So what could possibly justify his creation of
those destined for hell?                                    All
                                                            Atheism
When challenged with this problem, Christian                Creationism
philosopher William Lane Craig answered that perhaps it     Ethics
isn't possible for God to create a world with only          Politics
people who are saved. For let's say God created a world     Presuppositionalism
with only those in group A. In the actual world, all of
these people are saved; but it doesn't follow that they     [bg_feed] RSS Feed
would all be saved in this other world that contains
only them – for in that other world, things would be
different, and we cannot say that in their different
circumstances these individuals would still freely come
to accept God.

This is obviously a rather weak defense of the
Christian view. However, for the sake of argument,
let's say Craig is right and that at least some of the
people in group A need those in group B to be around in
order to be saved, so that God had to create group B.

This is where Schieber's argument comes in.

The argument employs the concept of philosophical
zombies – hypothetical beings that look and act just
like normal humans but that have no conscious states.
Such beings aren't plausible, of course, but the point
is that God could have created them. And though such
beings would have no conscious experiences of any kind,
to us they would be indistinguishable from real
persons. Your best friend could be a zombie and you'd
never know.

But now, even if it is necessary for the individuals in
group B to be around to interact with those in group A,
it's obvious that everyone who is a member of B could
have been a zombie rather than an actual person. This
way, they would still provide those in A with the same
exact circumstances that allows the latter to be saved,
but – the crucial point – they wouldn't be damned, for
they wouldn't even be real persons with a soul. So it
seems hell cannot be justified.

Pearce points out that, as a way out, a Christian could
conclude that this half-zombie world is what God in
fact created. Since from the outside one cannot tell a
human from a zombie, conscious humans like you might be
surrounded by zombies who merely appear to be conscious
nonbelievers. (This puts a whole new spin on the claim,
made by some, that there are no real atheists.) But who
can seriously entertain the idea that some of the
individuals around us are zombies?

Moreover, such a Christian would be abandoning the
concept of hell as a real place – references to it, as
well as the zombies who act human, would all be part of
a grand deception on the part of God. And that suggests
another way for the Christian to reply to this zombie
argument: God would never create such a world because
it would involve deception on his part. (On the other
hand, would such deception really be worse than
consigning some of his creatures to eternal suffering?)

There is one thing I disagree with Pearce about. He
claims that, even though a Christian could consistently
believe that we inhabit a half-zombie world, he himself
knows that we don't, since he is a nonbeliever and yet
knows that he is not a zombie. I'll leave it to the
reader to think about that one. As I said, lots of food
for thought in this book.

Pearce's book on Amazon
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
0 Comments

DAWKINS ON THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND'S SIDE

11/24/2015

0 Comments

 
Richard Dawkins recently criticized some U.K. theater
chains for refusing to run a Christian ad encouraging
prayer. More specifically, he objected “to suppressing
the ads on the grounds that they might ‘offend’ people.
If anybody is ‘offended’ by something so trivial as a
prayer, they deserve to be offended.”

I sometimes wonder if Dawkins says these kind of things
mainly to confound his critics. Nevertheless, I think
he's right: society has become overly sensitive.

On the other hand, this is not, as the Church's
communications director said and as Dawkins himself
initially tweeted, a freedom of speech issue. The
theater chains are private concerns and have the right
to whatever policy they deem appropriate. (They
currently do not run ads of a political or religious
nature – and so would presumably refuse atheist ones as
well.) So the theater chains are free to refuse the ad
if they want. But of course anyone who disagrees with
their policy also has the right to criticize them.

(Dawkins later retracted his claim that the theaters
were violating free speech.)

For more, see here.

0 Comments

CAN ONE DERIVE AN “OUGHT” FROM AN “IS”?

11/18/2015

0 Comments

 
As mentioned in a recent post, many religious believers
claim that without God there can be no objective right
or wrong. This creates an understandable temptation
among atheists to find an alternative basis for
objective morality. And because atheists usually look
for this alternative in science, they often begin by
rejecting the well-known principle that one cannot
derive an “ought” from an “is.”

One such atheist is Richard Carrier. He maintains that
this principle is “not merely illogical, it's
demonstrably false. We get an 'ought' from an 'is' all
the time.”

Carrier's basic argument is that there are objective
facts about what people desire, as well as objective
facts about how to achieve these desires, and that
“wherever both are an empirically demonstrated fact,
the imperative they entail is [also] an empirically
demonstrated fact.” So, for instance, consider the
following example:

1. You want your car to run well
2. In order for your car to run well, its oil must be
changed with sufficient regularity
3. Therefore, you ought to change your car's oil with
sufficient regularity

Here, we have two “is” premises which (we can assume)
state empirical facts, and an “ought” conclusion. And
since the conclusion is supposedly derived from factual
statements, Carrier believes it is “factually true
independent of human opinion or belief.” He thinks he
has solved the problem and that therefore the principle
that one cannot derive an “ought” from an “is” should
“never be uttered again.”

Well, sorry, but I'm going to utter it once again: One
cannot derive an “ought” from an “is,” and it isn't
hard to understand why. In deductive arguments, there
cannot be anything in the conclusion that isn't already
contained in the premises: All deduction does is
“extract” some of the information included in the
premises; it cannot add anything new. It follows that
if the premises of a valid argument contain no
“oughts,” then the conclusion cannot contain any
“oughts” either (except in a trivial sense which is
discussed in the note below).

And in fact it's easy to see what's wrong with
Carrier's argument. That “you ought to change your
car's oil with sufficient regularity” only follows if
it is also the case that you ought to want your car to
run well. In other words, there must already be an
“ought” in the premises if the conclusion is to follow.
Compare:

1. Manson wants to kill lots of innocent people
2. In order to kill lots of innocent people, one needs
weapons
3. Therefore, Manson ought to get weapons

Is the conclusion here “factually true independent of
human opinion or belief”? According to Carrier's
argument, it is! But who seriously thinks that it is a
moral truth that Manson should acquire weapons?

Nor is it difficult to come up with a counter-example
to the first argument. Suppose Mary is an extreme
environmentalist and disagrees that we ought to want
our cars to run at all. Can we demonstrate to Mary the
“fact” that you ought to change your car's oil
regularly?

No one has ever successfully bridged the is-ought gap.
If you want to maintain that there are objective moral
truths, you ought to find some other way.


Note:
For anyone who might be interested, the trivial sense
in which one can derive a conclusion that contains
“ought” from premises that do not is as follows: Given
that from p you can conclude p or q, one can validly
argue something like,

1. The earth is round
2. Therefore, the earth is round or you ought to go fly
a kite.

But this is irrelevant, as it is not a way to derive
moral principles (the conclusion is true, but it does
not actually say that you should go fly a kite).


​The quotations are from Richard Carrier, “Moral Facts
Naturally Exist (and Science Could Find Them),” in The
End of Christianity, ed. John Loftus, pp. 334-335


0 Comments

BEN CARSON'S PYRAMID SCHEME

11/12/2015

0 Comments

 

Ben Carson has been criticized for his bizarre claim
(made in a commencement speech seventeen years ago)
that the Egyptian pyramids were used to store grain,
and rightly so. But there was something else almost as
bizarre about his claim that is actually more telling,
and it is something most reports have ignored.

Carson's reason for thinking the pyramids were grain
silos, in case you don't know, is simple: the Bible
says that Joseph had the Egyptians store enough grain
to last them for seven years, and so Carson argues that
whatever they used to store it in “would have to be
something awfully big, if you stop and think about it.
And I don’t think it’d just disappear over the course
of time...”

But the other thing Carson said about the pyramids is
what I find even more interesting:

‘‘And when you look at the way that the pyramids are
made, with many chambers that are hermetically sealed,
they’d have to be that way for a reason. And various
scientists have said, ‘Well, you know there were alien
beings that came down and they had special knowledge
and that’s how they were...’ – you know, it doesn’t
require an alien being when God is with you.”

Yes, presidential candidate Ben Carson actually thinks
that scientists (or at least “various scientists,”
which is bad enough) believe that aliens were
responsible for the pyramids. That says a lot about how
much he understands science.
​
0 Comments

RUSH LIMBAUGH ON GOD AND HEAVEN

11/9/2015

0 Comments

 
Rush Limbaugh rarely discusses the issue of the
validity of religious belief, and a good thing, too.
But today he did and, well, you be the judge:

He was talking about an argument made by his father
when he, Rush, was a child – an argument that he
apparently still finds persuasive today. It goes like
this: A loving God, Rush's dad told him, would not have
created us with the ability to imagine a place like
heaven – or eternal life, for that matter – unless it
were real. For, to create beings capable of imagining
such a thing if it weren't real would simply be cruel.

(I can't help wondering if he thinks the same thing
about hell.)

This is almost as bad as the argument he presents in
his book The Way Things Ought to Be – and which I also
once heard him make on his show – to demonstrate the
reasonableness of belief in God: 

“The human mind... is incapable of imagining the size
of the universe, its origins, or even where it is.
Although some incredibly arrogant scientists believe
that they are capable of scientifically unlocking every
mystery of the universe and of understanding everything
in purely material terms, I believe there are certain
things that the mind of man simply cannot discover or
ascertain. There are certain things we were not meant
to understand, cannot understand, and must accept on
faith.” (pp. 153-154, italics in the original)

(I especially like that part about us not knowing where
the universe is!)

All of this is funny, of course, but what isn't as
funny is how Rush uses his religion to back up his
political views. His belief in a creator is, he tells
us, his principal reason for denying climate change:
“My views on the environment are rooted in my belief in
Creation... I don't believe that the earth and her
ecosystem are fragile...” (p. 153)
​
One can certainly have a serious discussion about
climate change. However, the religious approach of Rush
and his followers is essentially to not even have a
discussion, not even look at any evidence, because
after all, we already “know” that climate change can't
be true! And that's scary.


0 Comments

MORE ON WILLIAM LANE CRAIG'S MORAL ARGUMENT

10/29/2015

2 Comments

 
Christian philosopher William Lane Craig maintains that
atheists very often accept both premises of the
following argument (while rejecting its conclusion, of
course):

1. If there is no God, objective moral principles do
not exist
2. But objective moral principles do exist
3. Therefore, there is a God

In particular, he accuses Richard Dawkins of doing
this. But of course accepting the premises of this
argument while denying its conclusion would be
illogical, since the argument is formally valid.
According to Craig, then, it seems Dawkins and these
other atheists really are – as the “good book” says –
fools.

But is there any reason to believe Craig's claim?

As evidence that Dawkins endorses the first premise of
the argument, Craig quotes a well-known passage from
River Out of Eden. “The universe that we observe,”
Dawkins tells us, “has precisely the properties we
should expect if there is, at bottom, no design, no
purpose, no evil, no good, nothing but pitiless
indifference.” However, what Dawkins is obviously
pointing out here is that the amoral nature of reality
is evidence of its lack of purpose or design, and hence
of its lack of a creator. If there were a God who
supposedly cares about sentient beings, one would not
expect a universe of “blind physical forces” where
“some people are going to get hurt, other people are
going to get lucky, and you won't find any rhyme or
reason in it, nor any justice” (as he states in the
passage leading up to the above quote). And that's not
the same as claiming that there are no objective moral
principles that apply to human society.

But even if Dawkins did accept the first premise, Craig
would have to show that he accepts the second one as
well. And that's where his case is especially weak, for
his evidence here is simply that Dawkins makes moral
judgements. That is, Dawkins says that some things are
right and others wrong, and that, according to Craig,
shows that he believes in objective moral principles.
What's more, this is all the evidence Craig presents
with respect to other atheists who supposedly make the
same mistake.

But expressing a moral viewpoint isn't the same thing
as claiming that morality is objective, and Craig
should know that. He acknowledges that there are moral
relativists, who maintain that morality is relative to
culture. And yet a relativist can certainly claim that
something is right or wrong, even if his claim must be
made from a particular cultural point of view.
Similarly, subjectivists – those who say that morality
is ultimately based on subjective preferences or
desires – can, and do, express their own moral
preferences.

Craig therefore has failed to show that Dawkins or any
other atheist accepts the two premises of the moral
argument.


(For a complete refutation of Craig's argument, see
chapter 5 of my book, The Truth about God.)


2 Comments

IS WILLIAM LANE CRAIG BEING DISHONEST?

10/22/2015

0 Comments

 
Well-known Christian philosopher William Lane Craig
maintains that if there were no God, objective moral
values would not exist – and as a way of backing up
this claim, he likes to quote atheists who supposedly
agree with him. For example, on page 17 of God? A
Debate between a Christian and an Atheist (co-authored
with Walter Sinnott-Armstrong), he quotes Bertrand
Russell and Michael Ruse.

Russell once said that “ethics arises from the
pressures of the community on the individual,” and made
many other statements showing that he did not consider
values to be objective. And Ruse put it even more
bluntly: “Morality is a biological adaptation,” he
tells us. “Considered as a rationally justifiable set
of claims about an objective something, ethics is
illusory.” Craig then goes on to say that, like Russell
and Ruse, he doesn't “see any reason to think that in
the absence of God, the herd morality evolved by homo
sapiens is objective.” (p. 18)

Does this mean that these two well-known philosophers
agree that the non-existence of God implies the
non-existence of objective morality? After all, they
are both atheists, and they do both say there are no
objective values.

But the problem is that one can be an atheist and
reject the objectivity of values without, however,
agreeing with Craig – and Craig almost certainly knows
this. So could it be he's being dishonest here?

While it is true that both Russell and Ruse deny the
objectivity of values, it doesn't follow that they do
so because of their atheism. Russell most certainly did
not: his reasons for becoming a subjectivist about
values had nothing to do with God (in fact, he rejected
theism long before he abandoned belief in objective
morality). And I suspect as much in the case of Ruse,
since most philosophers who disbelieve in objective
values do not do so as a result of of their atheism.

I for one agree with Russell and Ruse about the nature
of morality – and I would do so even if I became
convinced there is a God. When it comes to the nature
of ethics, God's existence or non-existence is simply
irrelevant.

(On the next post I will say something about why the
rejection of moral objectivity does not mean the
rejection of morality – and why Craig's criticism of
Dawkins, among others, on this point is therefore all
wrong.)
0 Comments

BOOK EXCERPT: OLD TESTAMENT MORALITY, PART 3

10/15/2015

0 Comments

 
(The third and final excerpt on Old Testament morality
from my book The Truth about God. This one picks up
where yesterday's post ended.)

There is another problem with this attempted solution
to the savagery promoted in the Bible [see previous
post]. If worshipping other gods is regarded by Yahweh
as such a great evil, why is the destruction of rival
religious traditions no longer commanded by him today?
What explains the change? One answer, offered by
Gleason Archer, is that Christians don’t have to behave
as the ancient Israelites did because, being empowered
by the Holy Spirit within them, they “possess resources
for resisting the corrupting influence of unconverted
worldlings,” and are thus “able to lead [their] lives
in the midst of a corrupt and degenerate non-Christian
culture (whether in the Roman Empire or in modern
secularized Europe or America) and still keep true to
God.” It is for this reason that they “have no occasion
as ambassadors for Christ to resort to physical weapons
to protect [their] faith…” What Archer is maintaining
here, in other words, is that if it were not for the
empowering influence of the Holy Spirit, Christians
would be justified in killing non-Christians! They
don’t have to, but only because they have an inner
strength that allows them to remain uncontaminated by
the evil secularism and pagan religious practices that
surround them. Such a view, however, is not only highly
disturbing; it also fails to explain why the ancients
couldn’t likewise have been given this kind of inner
strength. ...

​Quoted material: Gleason L. Archer Jr., Encyclopedia
of Bible Difficulties, Zondervan, 1982, p. 159


0 Comments

BOOK EXCERPT: OLD TESTAMENT MORALITY, PART 2 

10/14/2015

0 Comments

 
(Another excerpt from my book The Truth about God.)

... At this point, the believer might object that if
God kills, he must have a good reason for doing so.
Copan says as much, claiming God may take human life
for “morally sufficient reasons.”[1] But this changes
the argument. Copan conflates this idea with the
previous one, but now it no longer is the case that God
has the right to kill us because he is our creator;
rather, his right derives from there being a moral
justification for killing. What we have here, then, is
yet another possible reason for the apparently immoral
events found in the Bible. According to this view, the
troubling episodes in the Old Testament are not what
they at first appear to be, for they all have
underlying reasons, even if we cannot always see what
they are. We may simply not know, or not have thought
about, all of the details. In many cases, we may simply
be failing to keep the big picture in mind. What we
have to do is take all of the facts into consideration.

Thus, one possible reply with regards to the
annihilation of conquered tribes is simply to claim
that it was fully justified by the terrible behavior of
the people in question. Their “degenerate idolatry and
moral depravity,”[2] according to some apologists, had
to be entirely wiped out from the land. Geisler and
Howe, in their work on Bible difficulties, remind
readers that the Midianites, for one, had “corrupted
God’s people by leading them into idolatry at Baal-Peor
so that 24,000 Israelites died in the plague.”[3]
 Similarly, they say, it was “necessary to completely
exterminate any trace of the city [of Jericho] and its
people. If anything had remained, except that which was
taken into the treasure house of the Lord, there would
have always been the threat of heathen influence to
pull the people away from the pure worship of the Lord.
[4]” Of course the plague that supposedly occurred as a
result of idolatry was presumably sent by Yahweh, who
after all is, by his own admission, an angry and
jealous God. Moreover, it’s somewhat debatable whether
worshipping other gods merits being massacred and
having even your small children put to death. (It is
also interesting that in the almost complete
destruction of Jericho an exception was made of the
silver and gold, so that it could be taken into “the
treasure house of the Lord”; religion, it seems, never
changes.)
​
Now, it is true that there were many behaviors among
these conquered peoples which were genuinely bad. They
apparently engaged in child sacrifice, for example. But
it should be pointed out, first, that to put a stop to
child sacrifice by killing everyone involved including
the children does not seem entirely sensible; and
second, that early on in their history, the Israelites
seem to have performed such sacrifices as well. It was
sadly an all-too-common practice, and, as will be shown
in the next chapter, there is biblical evidence that
God’s chosen people were no different from other tribes
in this respect. But if that is true, then the fact
that other tribes engaged in this practice could not be
the reason why God commanded their annihilation. ...


[1] Paul Copan, “Are Old Testament Laws Evil?”, in
William Lane Craig and Chad Meister, eds., God Is
Great, God Is Good, InterVarsity Press, 2009, p. 148

[2] Gleason L. Archer Jr., Encyclopedia of Bible
Difficulties, Zondervan, 1982, p. 158

[3] Norman L. Geisler and Thomas Howe, The Big Book of
Bible Difficulties, Baker Books, 1992, p. 110

[4] Geisler and Howe, p. 138

0 Comments

BOOK EXCERPT: OLD TESTAMENT MORALITY, PART 1

10/13/2015

0 Comments

 
(An excerpt from my book The Truth about God – more
specifically, from the section in chapter two dealing
with Old Testament morality and the excuses apologists
make for it. In the following, "Copan" refers to
Christian philosopher Paul Copan.)

The next explanation of the biblical atrocities is one
that Copan mentions as well, though many others have
made the same point. The problem as they see it is that
the critic of the Bible is appealing to a moral
standard that applies to human beings. But according to
defenders of this view, God is not to be judged by such
standards. God, after all, is the creator, and since he
gave us life, he has the right to take it away. To
quote Copan once more: “If God is the author of life –
the cosmic authority – he is not obligated to give us
seventy to eighty years of life… God can take Canaanite
lives indirectly through Israel’s armies – or directly,
as with Sodom…”* In fact, an argument along these lines
appears to be all but necessary if one is going to
justify the most extensive atrocity in the Old
Testament, the Flood. I have not mentioned that one
until now because it is so familiar that people usually
don’t give it a second thought. As a result, it might
not seem as terrible at first as some of the other
cruelties described above. But imagine what is supposed
to have happened: God killed everyone on earth with the
exception of eight people and a number of animals.
Countless infants and small children were drowned on
purpose – a horrible way to die – by the infinitely
merciful Lord. And yet he is regarded as morally
perfect. People must be judging him by a different
standard!
​
The idea, then, is that as the one who created us, God
is perfectly within his rights if he wishes to destroy
us. The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. But is
that right? Suppose you suddenly found yourself with
the power to create life. You create an entire
civilization of miniature beings who think of you as
their god. You can see from observing them through a
microscope that they are every bit as complex as
humans, caring for their loved ones, planning for the
future, and so on. Does it follow from the mere fact
that you created them that it would be acceptable for
you to now destroy them? I hope you agree that the
answer is no. It would be nothing less than genocide.
As soon as such creatures are created, it becomes wrong
to kill them. Likewise, even if God made us, the fact
is that we are here, sentient beings who care about
others, who have hopes and dreams, and who are not
deserving of death and suffering. It would be no more
morally acceptable for God to kill us than for anyone
else to do so. It makes no difference who performs the
act: the end result would be the same.


* Paul Copan, “Are Old Testament Laws Evil?”, in
William Lane Craig and Chad Meister, eds., God Is
Great, God Is Good, InterVarsity Press, 2009, p. 148


0 Comments
<<Previous

Link to my book, The Truth about God on Amazon
Quantcast
✕
