[headmain4]

  • HOME
  • CONTENTS
  • THE CHURCH
  • JOIN US
  • ESSAYS
  • LINKS
  • CONTACT
  • SITE
  • STORE

                               UCTAA churchlight

                            [                    ]
                            [Search]

Come on in! We've left the churchlight on for you.

Our 22nd year online!

                          Frequently Asked Questions

                     What do agnostics do about Christmas?

                              The 10 Commandments

                        School Projects on Agnosticism

                  How can you have Morality without Religion?

Blasphemy

Views on Halloween

                              What Religion am I?

                If you are so apathetic, then why the web site?

                             Why are you a church?

Website Privacy Policy
 


















 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


Site Search via Google

The Church of the Apathetic Agnostic welcomes you to ApatheticAgnostic.com.
Forwarding urls include ApatheticAgnostic.org, uctaa.com, uctaa.net, uctaa.org
On the Internet since 1995.

Updated 22 January
Next update expected 29 January (but see Meditation 1249 which remains valid -
your written contributions requested)

Your article submissions and thoughtful comments on current articles would be
appreciated to help keep this site active.

Your contributions for publication, pro and con, are encouraged.
Submissions for publication are not limited to non-fiction and opinion. Fiction
and poetry from an agnostic viewpoint is appropriate; artwork including
cartoons and comic strips, and multimedia files are also suitable for
publication. If you have the talent, we invite you to help make this site more
interesting and more appealing.

                                Enter the site
                or make a selection from current updates below

Current Updates:

The links below lead to the tables of contents of the sections in which
articles are located. For direct links to new articles, see site notes.

  • 22 January: The re-imagining religion series continues; degrading some
    god's words; and the failing Church of England in Meditations; a new
    Testimony in Agnostic Testimony; a cartoon in A Miscellany; and comments on
    past articles.

  • 15 January: The re-imagining religion series continues; Do End Times
    claimants really believe what they are saying? and the secularization of
    Millennials in Meditations; and comments on past articles.

  • 8 January: The re-imagining religion series continues; and martyrdom in
    Meditations; and comments on past articles.

  • 31 December: The re-imagining religion series continues; blinkered
    thinking, and religious education in Meditations; and a goodly number of
    comments on past articles.

  • 24 December: The re-imagining religion series continues; and two aspects of
    celebrating the season in Meditations; and comments on past articles.

  • 18 December: The re-imagining religion series continues; and some comments
    on this year's apparently toned down war on religion in Meditations; and
    comments on past articles.

  • 11 December: Is that tax plan really Bible-based?, and continuing to
    re-imagine religion in Meditations; skeptical downloads, and losing
    religion through science fiction and fantasy in A Miscellany; seasonal
    suggestions in the Hymnal; and comments on past articles.

  • 4 December: Once more on what religion could be, and three looks at
    nonsensical assertions in Meditations; the threats of the illuminati in
    Talk Back; and comments on past articles.

  • 27 November: Another vision of re-imagining religion in Meditations; and
    comments on past articles.

  • 20 November: Values, domestic terrorism, and further on re-imagining
    religion in Meditations; a cartoon in A Miscellany; and comments on past
    articles.

The Church offers free membership and ordination, and, through our affiliated
International University of Nescience, also offers a select range of degrees to
members and clergy. Application is online and documentation is issued by
e-mail. See inside for details

Please explore the site - there are 666 pages* of content - Discover what we
are about.

UCTAA Store We have authorized this independent online store to offer variety
of UCTAA logo products.

All material on this site is original and is copyright (C) The Universal Church
Triumphant of the Apathetic Agnostic & John Tyrrell (2016) except where
otherwise indicated. In particular, Talk Back submissions, and other signed
essays remain copyright (C) the original authors.

 

    *Actually, there are several thousand more pages than 666, but that
    particular number is sure to annoy someone.


^ TOP | NEXT >
January 2016

  • HOME
  • CONTENTS
  • THE CHURCH
  • JOIN US
  • ESSAYS
  • LINKS
  • CONTACT
  • SITE

