Guitar Gods
Learn to play the guitar the easy way

  • Home

What to Expect in a Piano Lesson

Aug 27 2014

Music soothes the soul. Life without music is a sad thought. Learning an
instrument can help you in many aspects of life. There is countless research on
the benefits of learning to play an instrument. There are educational benefits
and physical benefits to picking up an instrument and learning to play music.

Piano is the hardest instrument to learn to play but the most rewarding. When
making the decision to take piano the first thing you need to understand is
that you will need a piano or keyboard to practice on. It is better to have a
piano but a keyboard will work just fine for a time. When purchasing a keyboard
the things you need to look for are weighted keys, as close to 88 keys as
possible and if possible a pedal.

Piano lessons for beginners are usually 30 minutes in length. You could start
with one hour but in truth there is not much to teach a beginning student in an
hour. Beginning students do not have enough skills under their belts to
comfortably fill an hour. Your first lesson will consist of the basics. This
will be when you learn about the different types of notes, their duration, the
name of the clefs, a few other symbols, the musical alphabet and where the
notes land on the grand staff.

In the beginning, depending on the piano lessons teacher, you will learn hand
drills, musical theory and how to read music. The first few months will be
spent warming your hands up. Hand drills are meant to help build the muscles in
your fingers for playing. Reading music will be something you work on all the
time. Reading music is one of the most important things you will learn. If you
can read your music, and read it quickly, you can play anything set in front of
you. Take music reading seriously. This one skill can make or break your
journey as a pianist.

When learning to read music and playing the piano, you have to connect two
things together: what your eyes see and what your fingers feel. The art of
playing the piano is understanding what the music symbols stand for, and
translating that into what key on the piano represents those symbols. Hand-eye
coordination is key here. This is what you will be building in your quest to
become the next Mozart.

Once your hands get warm, and strong enough to tackle simple combinations of
notes together, you will start to learn to play piano chords. When playing
piano chords, you will be playing three to four notes at the same time on one
hand. In the beginning, you will play three notes at once. As your hands get
stronger, you will play chords that consist of four notes at one time. Piano
chords represent the harmony of music.

Learning to play the piano is a worth while experience, and you’ll need to find
these piano lessons for beginners to learn as fast as possible. It is not an
easy instrument to learn and you will definitely have to put in a lot of work
to master the instrument. However, once you master the art of the piano,
playing any other instrument will be a breeze. The piano is an instrument that
is made up of wood, nylon strings and ivory keys. What comes out of it is this
beautiful music that can fill a person soul and change a persons future.

Credit 21 offers you the LOWEST INTEREST Personal Loan in Singapore of up to 4X
your monthly income. Those who are interested in wicked pantages have already
tried pantagestickets and are more than satisfied.

Comments Off

The Best Guitar Songs for Beginners

Aug 23 2014

Learning how to play a guitar and sing along, just like other musical
instruments, calls for passion and dedication. When trying it out for the very
first time, it proves to be such a humiliating experience to even produce the
simplest musical sound on the string instrument. Arranging your fingers on the
frets to produce the basic chords is not easy at all.

However, for one to be a good guitarist, you first start with the basic chords.
Practicing them out is essential and the best way is by playing the chords
through a song. With the rhythm and sequence that the song is played offers the
best way that a beginner can acquire the picking and strumming techniques when
playing a guitar. Below are some songs that can help the beginners to learn to
play the guitar.

“Horse With no Name” is an American classic rock that was written in 1972 by
Neil Young. It is one of the easiest songs to learn to sing since it only make
use of two chords. It has a simple 4/4 rhythm beat with a reasonable tempo. Try
applying the basic strumming and picking techniques on the song. Strumming is
done by brushing past the strings so as to produce sound.

“For What It’s Worth” is another all time done by the Springfield Band of the
60s. Just like for the case of “Horse With No Name” it has two chords which is
chord A as well as chord E which are the commonly used chords. The song also
helps the learner to sharpen the strumming technique that adds flavor to other
songs that are also done through the same technique.

Finger picking is another technique that you can learn through the song ” House
of the Rising Sun” by The Animals. This method is done using fingernail to
pluck the strings.

While the “Scarborough Fair” of Simon and Garfunkel is a good song to learn
soloist guitar with. While this technique may prove a bit tough for beginners,
it’s a good way of getting to know how soloist guitar is played.

The all time favorite Christmas song “Silent Night” which has three chords
which produces a sweet and magical sound of music that linger and you can’t get
enough of it.

One of the greatest challenge that beginners face is coordinating the
strumming, changing of chords as well as the tempo. “Three Marlena s” is a
three chord song that is easy to learn with. The Wallflowers did the song in
1996 and emphasizes on smoothness of transition within chords. If you want to
learn how to sing better see this singing tutorial.

Bright Eyes’ First Day of My Life makes us of common chords to allow the
beginners traverse the verses with ease and offers a good stretch on the
fingers. This helps the beginners in mastering the art of coordination which is
essential in learning a guitar.

In conclusion, unless one is willing to go an extra mile to sacrifice time
practicing to play the chords by use of the common songs, learning a how to
play a guitar will never be aspiring at all. If you can’t get yourself to work
on your guitar practice, then stop procrastinating. Commitment is paramount in
learning anything new and beginners should not expect to become experts
overnight but should tirelessly work on improving their skills through
practices.

Comments Off

3 Great and Amazingly Simple Metal Guitar Songs

Aug 23 2014

When beginning to start out as a guitar player, you want something simple and
easy to learn, which, depending on your taste in music, might not be exactly
what you want to start out playing. If you are a metal head like me, then you
must understand that metal music is one of the most complex, technical forms of
music out there, especially in the realm of guitar playing, something that
could scare away even the most determined beginner. However, we all start from
somewhere, so following is a list of some of the most simple beginner metal
guitar songs to learn, and most of all, fun to play!

Enter Sandman by Metallica

Perhaps the most popular metal band out there, Metallica has some of the best
jams to learn, and “Enter Sandman” is a great beginner metal guitar song to
start with. The opening of the song is a simple, straightforward guitar riff
only composed of about four notes, but somehow amazingly catchy to listen to,
and super fun to learn. The main chord played at the beginning is E, and only
the power chord version, which consists of just the first three notes of E. The
rest of the riff is three basic single notes, starting out surprisingly enough
on E again, except one octave higher, then to A#, and ending on A. If you are
familiar with these notes on the fretboard, then this riff should be a breeze
to learn!

Paranoid by Black Sabbath

Being such a monumental band in metal history, Black Sabbath is often regarded
as the band that invented the metal genre itself, inspiring millions of
predecessors to the style and toronto landscaping companies. Their first hit
“Paranoid” is also one of the easiest songs to learn on guitar, also being
rooted around the E power chord. The song itself is a great way to learn palm
muting and hammer ons. Also, the main chord progression that is played is just
E, D, G, and then repeated. It is a great song to show off to family and
friends, easily recognizable by many.

Walk by Pantera

You may be thinking, how does Pantera fit into the world of beginner metal
guitar songs? With an virtuosic icon like “Dimebag” Darrell, it can be hard to
believe that the bulk of his guitar riffs were really just simple single note
patterns. Well, sometimes the greatest music does not have to be flashy or
technical, and “Walk” is a perfect example. The main riff itself is only a two
note pattern! It starts out on the bottom string played open, or E, and then to
the first fret, F, with a little string bend, and then back to E again. The
song is a fundamental lesson for aspiring metal musicians, and a perfect way
for beginners to learn how to use string bends and make them sound cool.

With learning these three fun and simple songs, the beginner metal guitarist
can easily learn all the basic techniques of playing from hammer ons and pull
offs, to palm muting, and string bends. Once you have mastered these, the world
of metal music will greatly unfold before you, and make so much more sense as
well!

Comments Off

Learning How to Play Guitar Scales?

Aug 23 2014

guitar ampEvery experienced guitar player will tell you that the key to coming
up with great solos, and melodies lies in first mastering guitar scales.
Unfortunately, there are so many guitar scales out there, and trying to learn
all of them can be very confusing. Most upcoming guitarists will pick a scale,
practice for 3-4 days, get bored and move on to learn the next scale.

Quickly memorizing the notes in a scale and moving to the next scale is a wrong
to go about scales. This also limits your creativity, making it impossible to
apply the scales you learn in actual solos and styles you play. See more about
that at electric guitar lessons and at this youtube channel.

Outlined here are five ways to help you achieve more during your practice
sessions. Following these puts you in a position to get more creative and make
what seems like plain boring scales more interesting and worth every minute of
your time.

1. Come up With a Plan

The basic scales every guitarist needs to learn are the Major, Minor and the
Pentatonic Scales. There are lots of guitar scales used in music today; some
apply only to specific styles. However, with a little creativity, you can make
exotic sounds by fusing them with your favourite style of playing.

Beginning by first noting down the scales that apply to the particular style
you play and learn them before moving up to other advanced scales. A good plan
will ensure you move step by step through the scales first setting the
foundation learning the fundamentals, and later advancing to the exotic stuff
to expand your playing. It is much easier to memorize more complex scales once
you can confidently play and apply the basic ones.

2. Make the Most out of Each scale

If you watch more seasoned guitarists play solos, you’ll hardly see them follow
the basic scale patterns outlined in most guitar lesson books. What they do is
first master the basic scales, and then break out from the basic patterns. This
helps them achieve a richer sound and tonal variation.

After mastering a scale, begin looking for the same notes on other positions
along the fret board. This helps you master the fret board as you unlock other
notes that you can add to further enrich your sound.

3. Analyze How your favourite Guitarists play their scales

Analyzing how experienced guitarists play is the best way to learn the
application of guitar scales. Try to pick out the scales they use in their
solos, this is also doubles up as good ear training during your guitar beginner
lesson. You can use tabs or figure out the notes they play by ear, this
however, depends on your level of expertise.

4. Play your scales on each single string

The Caged system, (vertically from the top low E string to the highest note at
the bottom of the fret board) is the most comfortable way of learning how to
play guitar scales. However, learning where the notes of a scale are positioned
on a single gives you a better picture of the scales and makes playing
vertically feel much easier.

5. Used the Caged system only as a guide

After learning the caged system and mastering how the scale sounds, it’s time
to abandon the caged system. This system can be very restricting. It was
designed to create a shortcut and make it much easier for beginners learning
how to play scales. If you stick to it too long, you will not be able to play
your scales all over the fret board like the pros do.

Remember; although learning guitar often feels hard, the biggest reward for
your hard work is the feeling of satisfaction you get listening to yourself
playing clean and perfect notes. It’s an awesome feeling you’ll never get over.
No matter how good you get.

 

Comments Off

  • Search for: [                    ] [Search]
  • Recent Posts

      □ What to Expect in a Piano Lesson
      □ The Best Guitar Songs for Beginners
      □ 3 Great and Amazingly Simple Metal Guitar Songs
      □ Learning How to Play Guitar Scales?
  • Recent Comments

  • Archives

      □ August 2014
  • Categories

      □ Uncategorized
  • Meta

      □ Log in
      □ Entries RSS
      □ Comments RSS
      □ WordPress.org

  • Categories

      □ Uncategorized (4)
  • Monthly

      □ August 2014 (4)
  • Pages

e80bdc76aa1dd0b1a2301a1861837b57ac302ece

Site Admin | Theme by NiyazGuitar Gods Copyright (C) 2016 All Rights Reserved

