Godless Girl

  • Home
  • Quotes
  • Disclosure Policy
  • Contact

Be the One to Turn On the Light

3
Be the One to Turn On the Light

Photo by Tom Raftery

I remember reluctantly stepping out of faith into atheism feeling as if
everything I cared about had been erased against my will. My community support
structure was gone; my family now felt like strangers; and I had no direction
in life or understanding of my place in the world. Who was I? Weren’t all
atheists lone wolves without a pack? Was I going to be alone and floundering
forever? I picture myself back then as a child standing alone in a dark, empty
room with no Exit sign or clues about how to find my way back to safety. I felt
lost in so many ways.

And yet I still knew I’d made the right decision following the truth where I
saw it. So I lived in discomfort for a long time, and sought out all of you.
Twitter, GG.com, and a local Meetup.com group pretty much saved my bacon. I
searched for community anywhere I could find it outside of a ritual setting.

So thank you, friends. Thank you for reaching me and showing me I could still
know friendship, connection, and common values even without a guide or set of
rules. Thank you in those little ways you showed me I was okay in the closet
and out of it. Thank you for showing examples of what it means to be confident
and skeptical, kind and daring, driven and open to change. Because of the
examples of others, I discovered I wasn’t alone in that dark room. I had people
all around me. I just needed someone to turn on the light and show me what was
available to me in this new life. Because of the examples of others, I now have
a real community online and off, I am out of the closet everywhere in my life,
and I’ve tried in my little ways to show others it’s okay. You’re not alone.

April 3, 2015  |  my past, religion  |  3 Comments

A Little “Thank You” to Atheism

1

Thank you, Atheism, for:

Causing me to realize my ethics need to come from my own truth, and not from
someone’s interpretation of a book or prophetic message.

Challenging me when I was comfortable and complacent in my thoughts and
beliefs.

Propelling me into years of self-reflection and change. Nothing showed me I
would be okay after asking myself the scary questions like my transition to
atheism from faith.

Opening up an entirely new community of friends, online and off.

Giving me the space to make my own choices without worrying about being shunned
from a rule-based community, eternal consequences, and punishment.

Showing me I can be bold about who I am in public because I’m just as “okay”
and worthy of respect and understanding as anyone else.

Being another example of a label that can shelter bigoted, cruel, abusive, and
closed-minded people behind an assumption of “rightness”. I realized that
changing labels doesn’t free me from having to confront the same failings of
humanity as are found within other social groups. This fact inspires me to
focus more on the people and their actions more than the simplistic fact that
they don’t believe in a deity.

Helping me find other issues I care about more than religion. As you know,
reader, I don’t blog anymore. I don’t get very angry about religion anymore. I
don’t consider myself an outlier in society.And there are other causes I care
about more than arguing  theology.  I met social justice warriors I admire
through the skeptic and atheist communities. I changed my tune on some social
issues through the influence of these bold few who educate and call-out/call-in
those who perpetuate socially destructive ideas and all those *isms I didn’t
realize had to do with me after all.

April 2, 2015  |  religion  |  1 Comment

Pull My Strings.

6

Love is the influence of action, the strings that pull the marionette. Each
energetic tug of the puppeteer tosses us into one another, playfully jostled
into action until we are so wrapped up in each other’s love, that nothing but
blades can separate the knots.

November 23, 2012  |  personal, randomness, relationships  |  6 Comments

Let’s Give It Up for the WTF

14

[funny-cat-pictures-lolcats-whuuuuuuuuuuuuutttttttt]

I love that somewhere out there in the world lives a person who uses precious
minutes of their day to comment on reviews of Snow White and the Huntsman like
this:

    THANK YOU TO THE USA. ANY EVIL IS SIN. CHRISTIANS ARE NOT FUNDED AND THE
    END OF WORLD ALMOST HAPPEND. God will not support sin films. Earrings
    -source levitucus peirce. Non hip habitchual boring. Lord jesus was
    coolest. great food, ideas hobbies,. Get it. A new genetic a new perosn
    Amen Say no to abortion! We need to have evidence of violtaions. Sometimes
    Never happens cause of bullys,gangs! Rev 12:9 kjvz.1corinth 14;26 kjvz Gal
    3:3 kjvz coolest. Rom 12:2 kjvz. When creating co you need bodygurads!!
    Well let you go. High heels take away strenght and cause crook back. Look
    for non fraud stuff. USA has satanist cult here. Kingsnake chain by god.
    What is evil what is of Lord.
    GREAT JESUS1 ANY T
    June 07, 2012

Whhhuuuuuuuuuutt?

June 7, 2012  |  Christianity, funny, quotes, randomness, the bible  |  14
Comments
Page 1 of 7412345...102030...>>Last >>

  • Top Posts&Pages

      □ Game Show Host Kisses Young Girls
      □ Twilight Quotes That Make You Go OMGWTF
      □ 11 Atheist & Skeptical Youtube Channels You Need to Watch
      □ Jesus in a Fish Head
      □ 30+ Writing Prompts for the Honesty Project
      □ Vertical Smiles and Stereotypes
      □ Why I'm Childfree
      □ Near-Death Experiences: Did a Boy Go to Heaven?
  • Featured Articles

    Atheism Isn't a Big Deal

    Atheism Isn’t a Big Deal

    It's really not. When I began this blog, I had this sense of being part of
    a great discovery, a wondrous ... (more...)

    Why I'm Childfree

    Why I’m Childfree

    There are many people who believe that being childfree (or better yet,
    "childless by choice") is a negative trait, especially... (more...)

    Coming Out Godless: What Was Your First Step?

    Coming Out Godless: What Was Your First Step?

    The delightful and thoughtful @hyumen documented the beginning of a long
    journey on her blog. Well, I did it. I told... (more...)

    How Can an Atheist Make a Difference?

    How Can an Atheist Make a Difference?

    This twitter conversation is currently in process: Me: I think it will take
    at least 2 generations more to get some... (more...)

    Morality from an Immoral God

    Morality from an Immoral God

    One of the most common disputes non-believers have with Christianity (and I
    would think Judaism, considering the circumstances) is the... (more...)

  • Recent Comments

      □ [dccf]long sleeve tee shirts on Would You Go Back to Faith?
        That is very fascinating, You're an overly professional blogger. I have
        joined your rss feed and ...
      □ [535c]Kellie on Game Show Host Kisses Young Girls
        Maybe you should make a plan now when you see injustices happening. It
        is NOT enough to just sit the...
      □ [535c]Kellie on Game Show Host Kisses Young Girls
        So...Einstein, it's okay for a filthy, old, geritol popping, funky ass
        senior citizen to want to kis...
      □ [1574]微信推廣 on How to Avoid Uncomfortable Conversations about
        Religion
        However, a large number of people have businesses rely on internet
        strategies. The following are 5 ...
  • Topics

    Topics[Select Category           ]
  • Archives

    Archives [Select Month  ]

  • Contents

      □ Contact
      □ Polls
      □ Quotes
      □ Disclosure Policy
  • View the Archives

    View the Archives [Select Month  ]
  • Subscribe to GodlessGirl.com

      □ [Posts RSS]     [Comments RSS]
      □ [enter email adress  ] [Subscribe]

© Godless Girl | Posts (RSS) and Comments (RSS) top ↑
