  • Home
  • About
  • Privacy Policy
  • Partners

Living With Mormons                                               CommentsPosts

Collisions between faith and reason in Utah
                                                         [                    ]
 
 
 
 
 Boys Scouts Revisited                                

 [s-BOY-SCOUTS-larg]The Boy Scouts of America
 recently received two major blows to its coffers
 with some major sponsors pulling the plug on their
 donations. Both Intel and UPS have responded to an
 online petition (which I signed along with 30k
 Americans) asking companies to stop contributions to
 the BSA due to their outdated and discriminatory
 policies by doing just that.

     “We promote an environment of diversity and
     inclusion,” Petrella said Monday. “UPS is a
     company that does the right things for the right
     reasons.”

 One of the ways the Boy Scouts raise money during
 this time of year is by selling Christmas Trees. I
 urge you to shop elsewhere and continue to hit them
 where it hurts: in their wallets.

 December 3rd, 2012 | Tags: atheism, Boy Scouts of
 America, discrimination, equal rights, homosexuality
 | Leave a comment
 
 My Letter to the Utah Museum of Natural History re:
 Boy Scouts Day

 I’m browsing Facebook today and noticed the Utah
 Museum of Natural History was advertising $1 off
 discounts for Scouts (boys, girls, cubs) tomorrow,
 August 15th. As the regular readers here might know,
 I’m an atheist, but I’m always careful to pick my
 battles where I find my time can make a significant
 contribution to equality.

 At a glance, it’s essentially just a marketing
 scheme to bring more people to the Museum and their
 intentions, it can be argued, are to support the
 education of our youth, albeit a selective group.

 However, a public facility geared towards science,
 history, and education should not give preferential
 treatment to a religious organization, imo.

 Below is the letter I wrote them today:

     August 14th, 2012
     To Whom It May Concern:
     It has come to my attention that the Museum is
     offering a discount offer in the price of
     admission for members of the Boy Scouts of
     America on August 15th, 2012.
     I learned about this offer through your Facebook
     page and your web site, links provided here:
     http://www.facebook.com/
     naturalhistorymuseumofutah
     http://www.nhmu.utah.edu/events/
     scout-day-8-15-12
     The Boys Scouts of America exists under a
     Congressional charter. Because the BSA has taken
     a stance against gays and nontheists, it is
     currently calling itself a religious
     organization.
     It saddens me to see an institution such as our
     State Museum giving preferential support to an
     organization that has consistently and adamantly
     upheld discrimination policies at its core, with
     no sign of changes, despite great pressure from
     litigation and non-litigation efforts.
     The Boys Scouts of America have clearly stated
     “that no member can grow into the best kind of
     citizen without recognizing an obligation to
     God.”
     Your association with the BSA (by means of
     preferential treatment) sends a message to those
     who do not share the BSA’s “values” that the
     Museum supports these ideals or at the very
     least holds the BSA in high esteem.
     I would like to point to this section of your
     Statement of Ethics stating that your museum
     “enjoys a high degree of public trust.  To
     maintain that confidence, we must act with
     integrity, prudence, intellectual honesty,
     foresight and appropriate transparency, in the
     best interests of the collections and other
     resources we hold in trust and of the diverse
     publics we serve…”
     A diverse public includes many individuals with
     characteristics that are not inline with the Boy
     Scouts of America’s requirements for membership.
     I would advise you to reconsider this marketing
     strategy and cancel this and future Scout Day at
     the Museum. While I am a fan of promoting
     science, rational thinking, and curiosity to
     children and young adults, the message being
     sent in this case is one of support of a
     controversial organization that has in its past
     been heavily criticized both from non-member as
     well as from former and current members for its
     discriminating policies.
     I would appreciate a response to this email with
     your feedback and/or suggestions to continuing
     improving our Museum’s public image and appeal.
     Sincerely

 August 14th, 2012 | Tags: Boys Scouts of America,
 BSA, discrimination, Utah Museum of Natural History
 | Leave a comment
 
 The Bad Astronomer is coming!

 Phil Plait, rocket nerd and writer for the blog Bad
 Astronomy on Discover Magazine blogs and of his
 latest book Death from the Skies, will be speaking
 at Utah State University on the same topic this
 Friday, April 27th 2012, at 7 p.m. in the Emert
 Auditorium, Room 130, of the Eccles Science Learning
 Center.

 This is a free event open to every one (or at least
 those who are ready to face our imminent doom).

 “When I started writing this book, I sat down and
 brainstormed every single astronomical event I could
 think of that could wipe out life on Earth,”

 April 23rd, 2012 | Leave a comment
 
 Let your friends know the next time they commit one
 of these logical fallacies

 Arguing with someone can be really frustrating at
 times when the other person doesn’t understand the
 basics of making logical statements and constructing
 reasonable arguments.

 If only you had a way of showing them that what      Recent Posts
 they’re saying violates some basic rules in
 reasoning. :(                                          • Boys Scouts Revisited
                                                        • My Letter to the Utah
 Well, now you do!                                        Museum of Natural
                                                          History re: Boy
 Your Logical Fallacy Is is… well, exactly what it        Scouts Day
 says it is.                                            • The Bad Astronomer is
                                                          coming!
 This awesome web site lists some of the main           • Let your friends know
 mistakes in arguing one often hears and cringes          the next time they
 over. It allows you to link directly to a specific       commit one of these
 fallacy, complete with a simple explanation and          logical fallacies
 example of said fallacy.                               • What is true, truth,
                                                          exists and not
 [logicalfallacy-300x155]                                 unreal?
                                                        • Why you too should
 They also have printable vector posters you can          attend The Reason
 print out and display at your favorite arguing           Rally
 arena, be it your cubicle, coffee shop, or church!     • “America is NOT a
                                                          Christian Nation”
 April 23rd, 2012 | Leave a comment                     • The best video in the
                                                          entire universe
 What is true, truth, exists and not unreal?            • The pope on trial
                                                        • God is calling you…
 arguing_with_christiansI recently had a (very)           literally
 late-night discussion with two Evangelical Christian   • Penn & Teller,
 friends regarding my disbelief in their god. Some of     vaccines, and the
 the usual topics were brought up regarding faith,        reason for language
 morals, and science as it relates to religion.         • Why I deny Joseph
 Arguments were flying back and forth with the two of     Smith’s Claims
 them appealing to their experiences to validate        • Utah’s Memorial
 their faith and my incessant (and pesky) appeal to       Crosses
 reason, logic, and reality.                              Unconstitutional –
                                                          Thank God!
 As the night went by I was feeling confident in my     • America and Freedom
 use of analogies and context to examples my need for     of Religion when it
 sticking to finding out the truth about things. I        suits you
 argued that we hold different levels of trust in a     • Religion endorses
 truth statement based on the amount of evidence we       animal killings
 find to support the statement and the relationship
 and between the likelihood of the claim and the      Blogroll
 amount of evidence needed to support it. As I could
 tell they were growing frustrated by my equaling       • Bad Astronomy
 their believing in an ghostly friend to my having a    • Bishop Higgins
 pair of hippos in my left pocket or the existence of   • ExMormon.org
 fairies and leprechauns on my front lawn, I sensed a   • JREF.org
 (non-surprising) shift in their tactics. They went     • Latter-Day Main
 from trying to “reason” the existence of god to          Street Plaza
 claiming that what was real to them just wasn’t real   • LDS FAIR
 to me.                                                 • MormonApologetics.org
                                                        • New Humanist
                                                        • Pharyngula
                                                        • Richard Dawkins
 Wait. What?                                            • Unreasonable Faith

 [surprised_elephant-300x174]                         Archives

 "You're just trying to get out of cleaning all this    • December 2012
 lint in here!"                                         • August 2012
                                                        • April 2012
                                                        • February 2012
                                                        • November 2010
 I pressed again and asked if the elephant in the       • September 2010
 cupboard was real or not and again they insisted       • August 2010
 that, if it’s real to me, then it’s real to me.        • July 2010
                                                        • December 2009
 At this point, and realizing it was almost 4am and I   • November 2009
 had to work in a few hours, I made a desperate         • October 2009
 attempt to clarify the difference between perception   • September 2009
 (belief) and things that actually exist (I know…       • August 2009
 tautology… it was 4am!!!), but every attempt was       • July 2009
 shut down with contemptuous similar remarks in the     • June 2009
 confidence that they had finally put the last nail     • May 2009
 on the coffin.                                         • April 2009
                                                        • March 2009
     “We get experts on everything… There’s all kinds
     of myths and pseudoscience all over the place… I The Out Campaign: Scarlet
     might be quite wrong. Maybe they do know all         Letter of Atheism
     these things. But I don’t think I’m wrong. I     [Brig-Blue-]
     have the advantage of having found out how hard  Connect with me at
     it is to really get to know something. How       Scoutle.com
     careful you have to be about checking your       
     experiments. How easy it is to make mistakes and Ads
     fool yourself. I know what it means to know      
     something… I can’t believe that they know when   Basketball Betting
     they haven’t done the work necessary, they       Cheap Prom Dresses 2015
     haven’t done the checks necessessary, they
     haven’t done the care necessary.” – Richard
     Feynam

 They did indeed as I was dead inside. Discussions
 like this take a lot out of oneself. They leave you
 with a dizzying incomprehension of the wide spectrum
 of reasoning the human mind is capable of
 displaying. They make you regret you ever posted
 that link on Facebook about the origins of Easter or
 Christmas. They make you a minority. The wrong one.

 They all went to bed and after sitting at that
 dinner table in regret of the hours wasted in such a
 foolish endeavor, I got up, took the hippos out of
 my pocket, the elephant out of the cupboard, and
 brought the fairies and leprechauns inside for the
 night. I think I’ll make them clean up the pile of
 shit in the kitchen in the morning.

     “Once you start doubting, which… to me is a very
     fundamental part of my soul, is to doubt, and to
     ask. And when you doubt and ask, it gets a
     little harder to believe. I can live with doubt
     and uncertainty and not-knowing. I think it’s
     much more interesting to live not knowing than
     to have answers which might be wrong… I don’t
     have to know an answer. I don’t feel freightened
     by not knowing things. By being lost in a
     mysterious universe without having any purpose,
     which is the way it really is, as far as I can
     tell, possibly. It doesn’t freighten me.” –
     Richard Feynman

 April 12th, 2012 | 3 comments
 
 Why you too should attend The Reason Rally

  

 The Reason Rally will be held in Washing DC on March
 24th, 2012, from 10am to 4pm at the National Mall.

 The list of attendees is insurmountably excellent.

 Go! Enjoy! Represent our views!

 February 27th, 2012 | 2 comments
 
 “America is NOT a Christian Nation”

 In light of the time Congress wasted yesterday
 passing a bill that reinstates our country’s
 official motto “In God We Trust,” I would like to
 remind those in power (especially Sarah Palin) that
 this country is NOT a Christian nation.

 Uh…. maybe I’ll let the Founding Fathers do the
 reminding:

 [adams]

 These awesome posters are part of a bus ad campaign
 by The Freedom From Religion Foundation. Check out
 the rest of them on their site. I hope Sarah Palin
 can read these.

 February 27th, 2012 | Leave a comment
 
 The best video in the entire universe

 embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/r6w2M50_Xdk?fs=1&hl=
 en_US)

 November 2nd, 2010 | Tags: raising children, science
 , truth | 3 comments
 
 The pope on trial

 Wow! I just love this cover of the New Statesman
 this week.

 It is about time we start looking at the pope figure
 for what it truly is: a man capable of great or
 horrible things. In this case, a man with the weight
 of years of covering pedophilia cases for the
 Catholic church who needs to face responsibility.

 [pope-cover]

 September 3rd, 2010 | Tags: Catholic Church,
 Pedophilia, Pope | One comment
 
 God is calling you… literally

 [santa_on_the_phone]

 God is calling

 Wow! This has to be better than tweeting him your
 prayers, right?

 But that is exactly what he did at St. Nicholas of
 Myra vacation bible school this week. God actually
 took the time off his very busy schedule causing
 earthquakes and killing evil people at the Love
 Parade to call each of the 21 children at the camp
 with messages to “follow him.”
 The children were between the ages of 6 to 9
 years-old, which is the perfect age, of course.

 Oh, man, there are so many things wrong here that I
 don’t even know where to begin.

 The first thing that clearly comes to mind is the
 parallel with Santa Claus (even the name of the
 school is St. Nicholas!!!) eating the cookie and
 drinking the milk from the mantle, while possibly
 leaving muddy footprints and reindeer crumbs on the
 snow. This is no different and every adult involved
 in this camp’s little stunt knows that it’s not god
 at the other end of the line, but Father O’Neal just
 trying to touch… uh… reach out… I mean, influence
 the children at his school with a personal phone
 call from the big man in the sky.
 So the level of deceit is beyond me.

 As a non-believer, I actually really love this
 program. Just like the Santa bit, children will
 smarten up to it eventually, as we all did, and
 hopefully it’ll be one more notch in their skeptic
 belt against believing in fairy tales.

 September 3rd, 2010 | Tags: children and religion,
 deceit, god, lies | Leave a comment
  
   Older Entries >>
Copyright (C) 2016 Living With Mormons - All Rights Reserved
Powered by WordPress & Atahualpa

