  • Home
  • 
  • About Us
  • 
  • Calendar of Events
  • 
  • Local Allies

Notice: Call for Nominations and Notice of Annual Meeting and Elections

●Published January 17, 2016 | By GodlessComplex

This notice serves as the official call for nominations for the upcoming
election of the Tri-City Freethinkers’ Board of Directors. Two Board positions
are up for reelection this year: President and Treasurer.

The current President, Jennifer Goulet, co-founded the Tri-City Freethinkers in
2008, became Vice President in 2011 when the organization gained 501(c)(3)
nonprofit status, and has served as President since May of 2014.

The current Treasurer, Yvonne Aguilar, was appointed to the Board in February
of 2015.

If you would like to nominate yourself or someone else to run for either of
these positions, please send an email to the Tri-City Freethinkers’ Secretary.

The elections will take place at our Annual Meeting, which will be held in the
Gallery Room at 1 pm on Sunday, February 21, 2016 at the Richland Public
Library at 955 Northgate Dr.

To be eligible to vote, you must be a current dues-paying member of the
Tri-City Freethinkers. Click here to become a member today, or pay with cash,
check, or debit/credit at our next event. Membership is $30 per individual, or
$50 per couple and is valid for one year from date of joining.

We will also have a guest speaker at the Annual Meeting. An update will be
posted when the details are worked out. RSVP at Meetup.

Share
●Posted in Meetings | ●Tagged Annual Meeting, board of directors, election,
nomination, president, treasurer

“A Better Life: An Exploration of Joy & Meaning in a World Without God” with
Documentary Filmmaker Chris Johnson

●Published December 6, 2015 | By GodlessComplex

Filmmaker Chris Johnson will be in attendance for a screening of his
documentary “A Better Life: An Exploration of Joy & Meaning in a World Without
God.”

When: Saturday, January 23rd at 5:30 pm

Where: Bechtel National Planetarium (on the Columbia Basin College campus) 2600
N. 20th Ave. in Pasco

Cost: Free for Tri-City Freethinkers paid members, $5 for students and senior
citizens (55+), $10 general admission

Ticket sales will begin at 5:00 for those who do not purchase online in
advance. Cash or card will be accepted. The film/talk will begin at 5:30.
Please arrive early enough to be seated.

Buy Tickets

About the film:

“If this is the only life we have, how does that affect how we live our lives,
how we treat each other, and cope with death. As a follow-up to one of
Kickstarter’s most successful publishing projects, photographer and filmmaker
Chris Johnson introduces us to some of the many voices from his book. In this
fascinating documentary – learn the stories behind the book in interviews with
some of our greatest thinkers. Join Chris as he explores issues of joy &
meaning and travels around the globe meeting people from all walks of life and
backgrounds who challenge the false stereotypes of atheists as immoral and
evil. From Daniel Dennett and A.C. Grayling, to Julia Sweeney and Robert
Llewellyn -learn the various ways many atheists have left religion to a better
life filled with love, compassion, hope, and wonder!”

View the official trailer.

Share
●Posted in Activities, Events, Tri-City Freethinkers, Video | ●Tagged A Better
Life, atheism, Bechtel National Planetarium, Chris Johnson, Documentary

First Amendment Violations Prompt Local Group to Address “In God We Trust”
Motto

●Published November 19, 2015 | By GodlessComplex

The Tri-City Herald ran a brief version of our press release this morning.

http://www.tri-cityherald.com/news/local/article45417771.html

Here is the full release submitted to the paper:

FIRST AMENDMENT VIOLATIONS PROMPT LOCAL GROUP TO ADDRESS “IN GOD WE TRUST”
MOTTO

PASCO, Wash., November 17, 2015 – A new and growing trend of “In God We Trust”
decals being placed on government-owned vehicles has inspired a local
organization to address the issue in a public forum this week. The Tri-City
Freethinkers will host guest speaker Robert Ray, National Director of the
Original Motto Project, to speak about “Restoring the Motto Our Founders
Intended.” The free lecture begins at 2 p.m., Sunday, Nov. 22 at the Community
Unitarian Universalist Church, located at 2819 W. Sylvester St. in Pasco.

The decals first appeared on police vehicles in Green County Missouri in the
summer of 2014. It caught on and, according to the Original Motto Project’s
interactive map that tracks each new occurrence, the current number of police
and fire departments displaying the motto stands at 168, primarily in the
Southern and Midwestern parts of the country. This is up from 142 just one week
ago.

The controversial practice has drawn sharp criticism, even prompting at least
one legal organization based in Wisconsin to issue warning letters to the
departments. When a letter from the Freedom from Religion Foundation (FFRF) was
received by Police Chief Adrian Garcia of the Childress Police Department in
Texas, he responded with his own brief letter telling the organization to “go
fly a kite.”

Upon hearing of the incident in Childress, Hunt County Sheriff Randy Meeks,
also in Texas, said he wished he’d thought of adding the decals first. “Our
country was founded on God. It’s time for us to make a stand and get back on
track,” he said and added that if he receives a letter from FFRF he’ll tell
them to “go butt a stump.”

The Mountain Grove Police Department in Missouri declared on their Facebook
page, “We will not remove these stickers from our cars! Not today, not
tomorrow, not ever. If anyone is protecting us, it’s most certainly the man
upstairs!” Similar sentiments have been echoed in police departments from
Florida to Michigan.

On several government-operated social media pages, citizens that protest
against the decals are allegedly being censored, with dissenting comments being
deleted and users getting banned from further interactions. Elected officials
behind the pages aren’t attempting to be discrete about the censorship either.
Some have openly declared that any who express disagreement will be silenced,
prompting concerns of violation of free speech and the right to petition the
Government for a redress of grievances guaranteed by the First Amendment.

In one instance, following a series of comments expressing disapproval of the
decals added to police vehicles by Louisiana’s City of Central Police
Department, a post on their official Facebook page warned, “…any comments
posted deemed non-informative and supportive of the Central Police Departments
[sic] intent to serve the citizens of Central will be removed.” According to
Tri-City Freethinkers president, Jennifer Goulet, a national network of
watchdog groups has been compiling evidence of this government censorship and
endorsement of Christianity.

“In God We Trust” became the official national motto in the 1950s as a reaction
to “godless Communism,” replacing the previous motto, “E Pluribus Unum,” (out
of many, one). When challenged as a violation of the First Amendment, courts
have upheld its placement in city halls and on currency on the basis that a
“reasonable person” would not construe the phrase as a government endorsement
of religion as the phrase is “traditional,” “has historical significance,” or
is merely “Ceremonial Deism.”

However, the recent actions and statements of the sheriffs, police chiefs, and
other government officials involved in this surge of pious posturing are
calling into question the validity of the argument that “In God We Trust” is a
phrase now devoid of religious meaning. The Original Motto Project contends
that this escalating religious fervor over the current motto only bolsters
their case against it.

Mr. Ray has been invited by the Tri-City Freethinkers to discuss the separation
of church and state, paying specific attention to both national mottoes, their
history, and the current controversy surrounding them. He will also talk about
other First Amendment issues that are a result of the opposition to “In God We
Trust.”

“The Tri-Cities has certainly seen its fair share of elected officials
attempting to impose their religious beliefs on their constituents by abusing
the power of their offices,” said Ms. Goulet, explaining why the organization
decided to tackle the issue. “I wouldn’t be all that surprised to see it happen
here. Disappointed, but not surprised.” Nonreligious as well as religious
people are encouraged to attend this lecture. “A government entity imposing a
particular religious view on its citizens should concern everyone who cares
about religious freedom,” Ms. Goulet added.

The Original Motto Project is a nonprofit organization dedicated to restoring
“E Pluribus Unum” to its rightful place as the national motto of the United
States. More information is available at originalmotto.us.

The Tri-City Freethinkers is a nonprofit community outreach organization
serving the religion-free population of the Tri-Cities area by bringing
nonreligious community members together for support, education, and advocacy.
Learn more at www.tricityfreethinkers.org.

Share
●Posted in Activities, Events, Meetings, News, Tri-City Freethinkers | ●Tagged
censorship, fascism, First Amendment, free speech, Freedom from Religion
Foundation, In God We Trust, law enforcement, Original Motto Project, police,
religious freedom, Robert Ray, Separation of Church and State, sheriff,
Tri-City Freethinkers

Restoring the Motto Our Founders Intended

●Published November 10, 2015 | By GodlessComplex

[B9317486614Z]In a very short period of time, hundreds of law enforcement
agencies and city councils, primarily in the South and Midwest, have added and
continue to add “In God We Trust” to government vehicles and buildings. Yes,
it’s been our motto since the 1950s (the witch hunt against “godless
Communists” caused it to be changed from E Pluribus Unum), and courts have
upheld its placement in city halls and on our money (also only on paper money
since the 50s) and “under god” in the Pledge of Allegiance (yep… since the
50s), but they have done so on the basis that a “reasonable person” would not
construe the phrase as a government endorsement of religion as it is
“traditional,” “has historical significance,” and/or is mere “Ceremonial
Deism.”

However, what elected officials (and their supporters) are repeatedly proving
through their actions, statements to the press, and on official government
social media pages is that the phrase is very much a brazen endorsement of
religion.

What should disturb you even more is that on most of these official government
social media pages, any who dissent are being censored.
12191582_10208143215603192_3959963749942238281_n Their posts are being deleted
and people are being blocked from viewing the pages. The elected officials
running the sites aren’t even attempting to be discrete about it. Many are
openly and proudly declaring that any who express disagreement, no matter how
civil, will be silenced. This is a blatant and truly horrifying violation of
the First Amendment.

A network of watchdog groups all over the country is compiling screen caps as
evidence of government censorship and explicit endorsement of Christianity. It
can no longer be argued that the insertion of god into our government is merely
traditional and secular in nature.

26781c0068b3a61667eadc5ef79be7fbRobert Ray is the National Director of The
Original Motto Project, an organization dedicated to restoring E Pluribus Unum
to its rightful place as the national motto of the United States. He co-hosts
the podcast, Secular Yakking, with his wife Amy and is the president of two
Humanist groups in the Puget Sound area.

He is also a Humanist Celebrant and recently gave the opening invocation to the
Washington State House of Representatives. He has been heard on Ask an Atheist,
Atheist Nomads, Secular Radio, and most recently on Road to Reason TV.

Robert will discuss the separation of church and state, paying specific
attention to both of our National Mottos, their history, and the current
controversy surrounding them. He will also talk about other First Amendment
issues that are a result of the opposition to In God We Trust.

It is the duty of each and every one of us to combat this descent into
theocracy in America. If you don’t think it can happen, I ask you to look at
what happened in Iran since the 1970s. We are on a dangerous path that is bad
for Christians as much as it is for the rest of us. Be afraid. Be very afraid.
But more importantly, be aware, be proactive, and be vocal.

Please come to this event on Sunday, November 22nd at 2 pm at the Community
Unitarian Universalist Church at 2819 W. Sylvester St. in Pasco, WA to learn
what actions are being taken and how you can get involved. Invite your friends
and family. All are encouraged to attend, whether religious or nonreligious.
Theocracy is a danger to all.

Please RSVP via Meetup or Facebook.

Share
●Posted in Action Alert, Activities, Events, Meetings, News | ●Tagged In God We
Trust, Original Motto Project, Robert Ray, Secular Yakking podcast

Video: David Silverman – Fighting the Lie of God

●Published October 5, 2015 | By GodlessComplex

In this talk hosted by the Tri-City Freethinkers, David Silverman, Creator and
Executive Producer of the Reason Rally and President of American Atheists, lays
out why telling people God doesn’t exist and religion is a lie is not only
effective, but downright nice.

Pre-order a copy of his forthcoming book, “Fighting God: An Atheist Manifesto
for a Religious World” via smile.amazon.com. We appreciate it if you select
Tri-City Freethinkers as your charity so that we can receive a percentage of
sales.

Share
●Posted in Video | ●Tagged American Atheists, David Silverman, Fighting God: An
Atheist Manifesto for a Religious World, Fighting the Lie of God, Reason Rally

Executive Director of United Coalition of Reason, Jason Heap, to speak in Pasco
in October

●Published September 28, 2015 | By GodlessComplex

Join the Tri-City Freethinkers on Saturday, October 17th at 10 am at
the Community Unitarian Universalist Church located at 2819 W. Sylvester St. in
Pasco for a brunch meet and greet with Jason Heap, the Executive Director of
United Coalition of Reason.  Jason is the first Humanist to seek (and be
denied) chaplaincy with the Navy. He will talk about the military chaplaincy
issues and the ongoing lawsuit. He will also discuss the benefits of forming a
local chapter of the Military Association of Atheists and Freethinkers, so all
veterans, current members of the military, and their families are strongly
encouraged to attend.

Dr. Jason Heap

Share
●Posted in Tri-City Freethinkers

Victory! Kennewick City Council votes against “Resolution affirming freedom of
conscience”

●Published September 28, 2015 | By GodlessComplex

This is audio from the September 15, 2015 Kennewick City Council meeting at
which members of the public, including some Tri-City Freethinkers, commented on
Councilman John Trumbo’s proposed “Resolution affirming freedom of conscience,”
which was then voted against 6 to 1 by the council. If you prefer to listen
only to the comments from those opposed to the resolution, skip ahead to the 40
minute mark. The statements given by the 6 other council members make it worth
listening to the very end.

Share
●Posted in News, Video | ●Tagged Arlene's Flowers, Barronelle Stutzman, bigotry
, Christian privilege, discrimination, John Trumbo, Kennewick City Council,
LGBT, Resolution affirming freedom of conscience

Greta Christina at Mid-Columbia Pride Week event: What can the atheist movement
learn from the LGBT movement?

●Published September 28, 2015 | By GodlessComplex

For Mid-Columbia Pride week, the The Tri-City Freethinkers hosted author and
public speaker, Greta Christina, who spoke about what the atheist movement can
learn from the LGBT movement. This event was sponsored by the Pride Foundation.

Visit Greta Christina’s blog.

Purchase Greta’s books:

Comforting Thoughts About Death That Have Nothing to Do with God

Why Are You Atheists So Angry?: 99 Things That Piss Off the Godless

Coming Out Atheist: How to Do It, How to Help Each Other, and Why

Bending

 

Share
●Posted in Events, Tri-City Freethinkers, Video | ●Tagged Greta Christina, LGBT
, Mid-Columbia Pride, Pride Foundation

Saturday! David Silverman “Fighting the Lie of God” at WSU and fundraising
dinner

●Published September 23, 2015 | By GodlessComplex

The firebrand president of American Atheists, David Silverman, will speak at
Washington State University this Saturday the 26th of September at 3 pm in the
East Building Auditorium in Richland. Silverman will explain why telling people
God doesn’t exist and religion is a lie is not only effective, but downright
nice in “Fighting the Lie of God.” This talk is free and open to the public.

Today, Wednesday, September 23rd, is the last day to purchase tickets to the
Dinner with David Silverman fundraiser that follows the speaking engagement.
Sales end at 11:59 pm. The dinner will be held at the Courtyard Columbia Point
at 480 Columbia Point Dr. in Richland. Doors open at 5:30. There will be a no
host bar and we’ll be awarding door prizes throughout the evening. We also have
some great items up for auction with low starting bids.

In the Tri-Cities, this is likely a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to get up
close and personal with America’s most well-known atheist, so don’t miss out!

Purchase tickets via Universe below.

Share
●Posted in Tri-City Freethinkers | ●Tagged American Atheists, David Silverman,
Mid-Columbia Coalition of Reason, Richland, Tri-Cities, Tri-City Freethinkers,
Washington State, WSU

How you can help (and not hinder) firefighting and disaster relief efforts in
Washington State

●Published August 25, 2015 | By GodlessComplex

NA-CG910_FIRE_s_P_20150820205331If you’ve looked out your window or taken a
breath outdoors, you are probably aware that we are in a state of emergency due
to massive, rapidly spreading wildfires all over the state. Several people have
inquired how we, as Tri-City Freethinkers, might be able to help.

I reached out to Rebecca Vitsmun with Foundation beyond Belief, who said,
“Foundation Beyond Belief is monitoring the unfolding wildfire situation in
Washington. They report that at this time monetary assistance is not needed by
local officials and only highly specialized individuals are needed for
volunteering. As with all disasters sending people or donations that are not
needed create MORE of a problem by creating unnecessary work for the
individuals working on the ground. Unsolicited donations and volunteers require
management and take resources away from those truly in need.

“Foundation Beyond Belief discourages sending in-kind donations and
self-deployment to Washington State. Humanist Disaster Recovery staff will
continue to monitor the situation and will provide updates as appropriate.

“A previous blogpost written on Responsible Giving in Disasters can provide
some additional clarity to our current decision.”

Share
●Posted in Action Alert | ●Tagged disaster relief, fire, firefighters, Red
Cross, volunteer, Washington State, wild fires | ●Leave a comment
← Older posts

Subscribe to our email list

* indicates required
Email Address *
First Name [                    ]
Last Name [                    ]
Zip Code [                    ]
[                    ]
[Subscribe]
Make a Donation

       The Tri-City Freethinkers is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization.
                         Donations are tax deductible.

Tri-City Freethinkers on Facebook

Tri-City

Raising

Drinking

Reasonable

Recovering

Young Freethinkers of the Tri-Cities

Coming soon: Tri-City Military Freethinkers

Tri-City Freethinkers on Meetup

Tri-City

Drinking

Recovering

Reasonable

Raising

[                    ] [Search]
You can support the Tri-City Freethinkers by making your Amazon purchases via
smile.amazon.com.
 

Copyright © 2016. All Rights Reserved.

 

