  • Home
  • About
  • Best
  • Video
  • Audio
  • Cartoons
  • Contact
  • Subscribe

Michael Nugent

Atheism, Reason, Skepticism, Happiness

Is theism reasonable? My TCD debate with Peter Hitchens, Ivana Bacik and
Patrick Masterson

by Michael Nugent on January 19, 2016

Is theism a reasonable philosophical position? I debated this yesterday in
Trinity College Dublin Metaphysical Society with Peter Hitchens, Ivana Bacik
and Patrick Masterson.

Part 1 – Patrick Masterson and Ivana Bacik

Part 2 – Peter Hitchens and Michael Nugent

[click to continue…]

{ 1 comment }

Come to the World Rationalist Conference in Tallinn, Estonia, on 23-24 April

by Michael Nugent on January 17, 2016

Tallinn ConferenceI will be speaking at the next World Conference of
Rationalist International, on 23-24 April, in the Baltic city of Tallinn, the
capital of Estonia, a secular EU country.

I hope to see you there if you attend, and I look forward to a fascinating and
productive conference.

I will be speaking about lessons from Ireland on secularism and human rights,
along with three former speakers at Atheist Ireland events in Dublin: Sanal
Edamaruku from India, Taslima Nasrin from Bangladesh and Maryam Namazie from
Iran.

[click to continue…]

{ 0 comments }

Do atheists need the Catholic Church? My debate with Joe Humphreys on BBC

by Michael Nugent on January 17, 2016

Do atheists need the Catholic Church? I debated Joe Humphreys of the Irish
Times, with host Roisin McAuley, on BBC Radio Ulster’s Sunday Sequence today.

{ 0 comments }

How the Irish State misled the UN about religious discrimination in schools

by Michael Nugent on January 15, 2016

AI Geneva 3The Irish State twice misled the UN yesterday in Geneva about
religious discrimination in access to schools. In both cases, Atheist Ireland
was there to explain the true position to the UN Committee, to enable them to
question Ireland more accurately.

Firstly, when answering questions about religious discrimination in access to
schools, the Irish State raised the Admissions to Schools Bill without
admitting that it retains the right to discriminate against children on the
ground of religion. In fact, the Bill was designed to specifically not address
religious discrimination.

Secondly, the Irish State told the UN that the Minister for Education had said
she will change the Equal Status Act to stop schools discriminating on religion
in access to schools. In fact, she has said the opposite – that this Government
will not change the Equal Status Act, as they say that it would require a
referendum to do so.

[click to continue…]

{ 3 comments }

UN again asks Ireland about breaching human rights in Irish schools

January 14, 2016

Following the UN Children’s Rights Committee questioning of Ireland today in
Geneva, Atheist Ireland is confident that the UN will yet again tell Ireland to
stop breaching the human rights of atheist and minority faith families in Irish
schools. Atheist Ireland had very positive interactions with the Committee
here, during our formal and informal briefings. […]

Read the full article →

Atheist Ireland in Geneva this week at UN hearing on rights of the child

January 13, 2016

This Thursday, in Geneva, Atheist Ireland will be advocating for children in
Irish schools, as the UN questions Ireland about its human rights record under
the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This is our sixth year raising
religious discrimination in Ireland with the UN, Council of Europe and OSCE. We
will be raising four […]

Read the full article →

Early major report on ‘Islamophobia’ acknowledged problems with the word

January 8, 2016

One of the earliest major documents to popularise the word ‘Islamophobia’ was
the Report ‘Islamophobia: A Challenge For Us All’, published in 1997 by the
Runnymede Trust in England. But that Report itself acknowledged the problems
associated with the word, and its analysis of the underlying issues was also
flawed. I suggest, partly on the […]

Read the full article →

RENUA election manifesto shows no understanding of religious discrimination

January 6, 2016

RENUA, one of Ireland’s new political parties, has launched its general
election manifesto. It does not respect the human rights of atheist and
secularists. RENUA not only fails to prioritise education reform, but it does
not even understand the problem of religious discrimination in Irish schools,
never mind know how to tackle it. RENUA’s manifesto does […]

Read the full article →

Five challenges for atheists and secularists in 2016

January 1, 2016

These are my five challenges for atheists and secularists in 2016. 1. Oppose
the silencing word ‘Islamophobia’ 2. Promote robust civil dialogue not Internet
rage 3. Normalise the use of the word atheism 4. Promote fundamental human
rights 5. Promote ethical secular democracy It is a follow-up to my review of
2015 for atheists and […]

Read the full article →

Supporting the right to die – my discussion on Newstalk

December 30, 2015

I discussed the right to die on Newstalk Radio Lunchtime on Monday.

Read the full article →

← Previous Entries

  • Michael
  • Search

    [To search, type and ] 

  • I Keano

    Famous Atheists A-Z

    200 Atheist Songs 

    Promoting Ethical Atheism

    1,500 Women Speakers

    My tribute to my late wife Anne Holliday

    Chronology of Smears
  • Pages

      □ About
      □ Best
      □ Video
      □ Audio
      □ Cartoons
      □ Contact
  • Categories

      □ Categories
          ☆ Atheism
          ☆ Atheist Ireland
          ☆ Dialogue
          ☆ Entertainment
          ☆ Equality
          ☆ Funny
          ☆ Guest Posts
          ☆ Happiness
          ☆ News
          ☆ Personal
          ☆ Philosophy
          ☆ Politics
          ☆ Religion
          ☆ Science
          ☆ Secularism
          ☆ Skepticism
          ☆ The Bible
          ☆ The Vatican
          ☆ Uncategorized
  • [feed-icon3]
    Subscribe
  • Recent Posts

      □ Is theism reasonable? My TCD debate with Peter Hitchens, Ivana Bacik
        and Patrick Masterson
      □ Come to the World Rationalist Conference in Tallinn, Estonia, on 23-24
        April
      □ Do atheists need the Catholic Church? My debate with Joe Humphreys on
        BBC
      □ How the Irish State misled the UN about religious discrimination in
        schools
      □ UN again asks Ireland about breaching human rights in Irish schools
      □ Atheist Ireland in Geneva this week at UN hearing on rights of the
        child
      □ Early major report on ‘Islamophobia’ acknowledged problems with the
        word
      □ RENUA election manifesto shows no understanding of religious
        discrimination
  • Michael Nugent on Twitter Counter
    More Tweets
  • Michael Nugent
    [1251712772]
    Create your badge
  • 

Get smart with the Thesis WordPress Theme from DIYthemes.

WordPress Admin

