My Secret Atheist Blog                                                         

MSAB Podcast

  • Home
  • MSAB Podcast
  • Kasese
  • Raif Badawi
  • Saudi Arabia
  • Egypt
  • Bangladesh
  • MMS
  • Making A Difference
  • Guest Bloggers
  • About Me

●

Friday, 18 December 2015

Podcast 22 - (Solo) Dinosaurs, TV Witches & Human Rights

[msab-title-large-blog]

I wasn't able to get any guests on this week so I ranted and raved to myself!
This isn't anything new, really. It's just that I did it in front of a
microphone this time.



Here's where you can subscribe to My Secret Atheist Podcast: ITunes, Soundcloud
,  RSS URL, Youtube.

SHOW NOTES
My second solo episode is me ranting on about creationists, censoring of occult
on TV in India and the situation with Raif Badawi.

‘Dino Pastor’ preaches in Wright Township about science behind creationism (
http://buff.ly/1Ocn30h)

Televangelist: God put dinosaurs in the Bible as the ‘poster child for
creationism’ (http://buff.ly/1mcI5p4)

Advisory to channels on superstitious content (http://buff.ly/1PdKQlE)

Intro Music: ‘Cocktails In Space’ by Dana Countryman (http://buff.ly/1mrTjq5)
Outro Music: ‘Interdimensional Lounge Music’ by The Polish Ambassador (http://
buff.ly/1PdKHP0)

(Image source)
By Sean McGuire at 12/18/2015 No comments: ● ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Links to this post
Labels: msap

Sunday, 13 December 2015

Saudi Arabia: A Real Human Rights 'Fixer Upper'

[can-do-it]

Today, Saudi Arabia stepped timidly into the 20th century, not only are women
allowed to vote - assuming they can get their menfolk to drive them to the
ballots - but they can now run for office too. I'm not sure whether or not
these candidates required approval from their husbands first. I'll just go out
on a limb here and guess 'yes.'

In fact, time constraints forbade me from covering the recent news about
Loujain Al-Hathloul, about whom I wrote earlier this year. She was thrown into
jail for operating a motor vehicle in Saudi Arabia - thankfully they didn't
suspect her of witchcraft or they would have killed her. Now she is running in
this first election open to women in the hopes of improving women's rights in
the country.

Critics think it's a ruse.

    Critics argue the inclusive election is an empty gesture by the government,
    meant to avert media attention from the broad range of women's rights
    violations that persist within the kingdom.

Whatever the situation, it turns out that 19 women have won, but the report is
not telling me who. I wish her the best of luck - one would think the only way
possible is up; but the Saudi government has really surprised us all with their
extraordinary ability to take a terrible human rights violation and turn it
into an horrendous one.

To be honest, I've always admired people who have mastered IDGAF (I don't give
a fuck), but the Saudi leadership have truly taken this to such an
extraordinary level, that I've come to think that they do actually give fucks.
They just do not understand human rights at all. If you're ignorant to the
whole concept of freedom of speech and expression then you will not give a fuck
about these - you may still give a fuck about how everyone else on the planet
is reacting and get really confused and upset at them too.

What am I rambling about? Oh, I'm sorry, I've changed the topic to Raif Badawi.

The week before last week, the Swiss ambassador to Saudi Arabia dropped a hint
that the Saudis were preparing a pardon for Raif, who made the horrible mistake
of blogging his opinions in a freedom of expression free zone - (the entire
kingdom seems this way).

    A Swiss newspaper is reporting that imprisoned Saudi blogger Raif Badawi
    could have his sentence of 1,000 lashes suspended, but Amnesty
    International has yet to confirm the news.

    The Swiss Secretary of Foreign Affairs Yves Rossier told the Fribourg daily
    newspaper La Liberté that Badawi's sentence was suspended.

    "A royal pardon is in the works thanks to the head of state, King Salman
    bin Abdulaziz Al Saud," he said.

Haha! Just kidding! The Saudis really played a funny prank on Mr. Rossier
there, right? It turns out that just days before International Human Rights Day
 - how festive! - Saudi officials moved Badawi into a super isolated prison,
which is apparently the sort of place they stick people whose appeals are all
over.

Oh, and the situation is so grave, that after years of confinement, Badawi has
begun a hunger strike too.

    Raif Badawi has today began a hunger strike as The Saudi Prison
    administration has transferred him to a new isolated prison.

    The prison administration has transferred Raif to the notorious ‘Shabbat
    Central’, located in a deserted and isolated area – around 87 km from
    Jeddah City.

    This prison is designed for prisoners whose verdicts have been confirmed
    with a final Adjudication. The Saudi government has repeatedly declared
    that Raif’s case is under review and is yet to be decided by the Supreme
    Court.

    We express our surprise at this decision especially after the Swiss
    Secretary of Foreign Affairs Yves Rossier announcement on 28 November that
    a royal pardon is in the works. And we are very alarmed at the prison
    administration decision to transfer Raif to the Shabbat Central and fear it
    may lead to the resumption of his flogging.

    As a result of this decision, Raif started on Tuesday a hunger trike and we
    hold the prison administration responsible for any harm that Raif may
    suffer.

    We take this opportunity to call on his Majesty King Salman to act on his
    promises and pardon my husband, end his and his family’s ordeal and unite
    him with his wife and children.

Incidentally, Raif is diabetic. So if you think hunger strikes suck, then you
better believe they really suck if you can pass out and die easily when your
blood sugar levels go wonky because... you're diabetic. It's no joke, this
could kill him - and I'm not entirely sure if the Saudi officials really care
that much.

What can you do?  I guess you could start by signing this petition to Justin
Trudeau. Don't bother trying to talk to the Saudi embassy, they're not
listening.

You can go here and see other things you can do.

Again, congratulations to the newly elected in Saudi Arabia. If they want to
improve human rights and equality - they've got their work cut out for them.
By Sean McGuire at 12/13/2015 No comments: ● ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Links to this post
Labels: badawi, human rights, saudi arabia

Podcast 21 - Pastafarian Isabelle Narayana

[msab-title-large-blog]

This week's episode is an interview with Pastafarian Isabelle Narayana done
right here in Montreal. I write about Isabelle's story in a previous blog post
and I was lucky enough to speak with her in person to clear up some details of
her story.

    Narayana, who claimed to belong to the Church of the Flying Spaghetti
    Monster whose members are known as Pastafarians, went to court after the
    Société de l’assurance automobile du Québec (SAAQ) said she couldn’t wear a
    colander or pirate hat in the photo. She’d shown up to renew her permit at
    an SAAQ office in March 2014, in full pirate attire, but was denied. Only
    medical or religious exceptions are allowed to the no-head-covering rule.


Here's where you can subscribe to My Secret Atheist Podcast: ITunes, Soundcloud
,  RSS URL, Youtube.

SHOW NOTES
Pastafarian Isabelle Narayana went to court because she was not allowed to wear
her pasta colander while getting her license photograph done at the SAAQ
(Quebec DMV). The judge threw out the case, while people of other religions are
allowed to wear even more concealing head coverings. In this episode, Isabelle
gives some of her story that seems to have been missed by the media.

Intro Music: ‘Earth Versus the World’ by The Polish Ambassador (goo.gl/0QDI4W)

Outro Music: ‘Behind The Seas’ by Possimiste (goo.gl/nWMbBo)

(Image source)
By Sean McGuire at 12/13/2015 No comments: ● ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Links to this post
Labels: msap
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)

Search This Blog

Loading...
●

●
●
●

Blogs I Follow

  • 
    Godless Mom
    Announcing Godless T-Shirts!
    1 hour ago
  • 
    Friendly Atheist
    Restaurant Manager Sends Note to Local Pastor After Waiter Gets a Jesus
    Pamphlet Instead of a Tip
    2 hours ago
  • 
    Applied Sentience
    Secular is Insufficient – How HSC Differs from the Peace Corps
    1 day ago
  • 
    Atheist Revolution
    If I Was Voting in Iowa, I'd Still Be Undecided
    1 day ago
  • 
    Canadian Atheist
    RDF to Merge with Center for Inquiry
    2 days ago
  • 
    One Quarter Mama
    Driving While Autistic
    5 weeks ago
  • 
    I am an Atheist and this is why
    Saying no to a blood transfusion
    3 months ago
  • 
    Deity Shmeity
    Grounding Morality in Reason
    4 months ago

●

Blog Archive

[Blog Archive       ]
●
 
Powered by Blogger.
●
