  • About
  • Case Studies
  • Comment Policy
  • Secular Morality

No Forbidden Questions

  • Recent Posts

      □ Learning our history
      □ Believing what you want
      □ On “warped thinking and terrible doctrine”
      □ What is a metaphor?
      □ Better Angels: From souls to lives
  • Bookmarks

      □ Brute Reason
      □ Conversational Atheist
      □ Daylight Atheism
      □ Good Reason
      □ Gospel Doctrine for the Godless
      □ Greta Christina's Blog
      □ Oh No Ross and Carrie
      □ Question With Boldness
      □ Terahertz
      □ The Atheist Experience
      □ Why Won't God Heal Amputees?

Learning our history

So … I get email. Email I signed up to receive, usually. I’m subscribed to the
GotQuestions.org “Question of the Week” email newsletter, because that’s
occasionally been interesting blog fodder. From time to time the organization
uses the newsletter list to send out fundraising requests or, somewhat less
often, promotions for other Christian resources. I won’t say I was surprised,
exactly, by this message I received last week, but I did find it very
unsettling.

Header from Mike Huckabee's Learn Our History promotional email

Here’s a full-size image of the entire email message I received. I believe this
link should take you to the “having trouble viewing this email” version of the
message. The text itself begins,

    Dear Parents and History Fans,

    I’m excited to announce that I’m giving away a FREE U.S. History DVD for
    children called God Bless America!

    Since our earliest days, God has blessed America unlike any other nation
    before it. But our schools don’t teach God’s impact on our history! That’s
    why I commissioned my team at Learn Our History to create this very special
    DVD. It features fun animation and a great storyline that kids love. And
    for a limited time, I’m giving it away for FREE when you try Learn Our
    History!

And of course, as you might have already noticed from the logo in the header,
it’s signed by Learn Our History co-founder Mike Huckabee. That’s right, 2016
Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee. While Christian propaganda
masquerading as educational materials (this is specifically sold as “great for
homework assignments and homeschool lessons”) is nothing new, I think it’s
noteworthy that this is being pitched by someone who wants to be President of
the United States.

We could certainly dissect the details of these videos, as even the short
promotional trailers are rife with strawmen and misrepresentation. We could
even giggle at the premise of time-traveling kids and the cheesy animation. But
ultimately, all that’s beside the point. If Huckabee were to become president,
he would have to swear to uphold the Constitution, including the parts which
require the government not to make laws preferencing any one set of religious
beliefs over another. After everything he’s done and said related to the Kim
Davis case, I am pretty sure he does not understand the Free Exercise Clause …
but this message, that the United States is specifically guided by the
Christian god and that American children ought to be taught this in their
history classes, makes me concerned about his grasp of the Establishment Clause
as well.

I should mention, the Learn Our History organization seems a bit sketchy. When
I try to visit learnourhistory.com, the top hit for my search on the
organization’s name, I get directed to a site through https which throws an SSL
error and doesn’t load. I can reach a website by removing the s, though that
site says it’s run by EverBright Media and doesn’t appear to mention Huckabee
anywhere. The next search result is to learn-our-history.com (with hyphens),
but that page hasn’t been updated since 2013 and is still promoting an awkward
video about civil rights made for the 150th anniversary of the Emancipation
Proclamation. It does have the same picture of Huckabee as the one in this
email — well, the mirror image of it, anyway. Of course, this email refers me
to a different website altogether, freegodlesson.com, which is basically a
single-page ad that links back to the first site down in the disclaimers at the
bottom.

In my search for the other co-founder or any other information about the
origins of Learn Our History, I did eventually Google my way to this page.
Huckabee and his partner Bradley Saft write (emphasis mine, irony
self-evident):

    It’s widely accepted that kids learn best through experience.  But,
    unfortunately, the only way kids are experiencing history today is by
    having it force-fed to them through dry text books, monotonous lectures and
    boring lessons.  On top of that, our children’s classes and learning
    materials are often filled with misrepresentations, including historical
    inaccuracies, personal biases and political correctness—and without
    acknowledging God’s role in America’s founding and development.

    With this knowledge, we set out to create the most experiential history
    product ever—one that would make it easy and fun for kids to understand
    American history, while remaining true to the facts and free from distorted
    messages that dilute the significance of our nation’s most important
    stories.

Naturally, I was curious about this Bradley Saft character. It appears that
he’s basically the guy who works with Mike Huckabee to promote several lines of
“free” Christian DVDs with hidden-in-fine-print monthly subscription fees
attached. (Also, um … is he Jewish? Comparing pictures, I think this is the
same guy.) Is this a scam? Not technically, I think. But it’s manipulative and
certainly not transparent.

None of this — the Christian propaganda push, or the “free” DVD empire —
ultimately reflects well on Huckabee, as a politician or as a person. I’d like
to think that we’ve all learned a little more from history than he gives us
credit for, though. Hopefully American voters will hold Huckabee accountable
for his theocratic views, and won’t be willing to elect someone who stands
opposed to long-established and well-justified American political ideals.

Share this:

  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • 

2 Comments
by NFQ on September 14, 2015  •  Permalink
Tagged church-state separation, history, mike huckabee
Posted by NFQ on September 14, 2015

http://www.noforbiddenquestions.com/2015/09/learning-our-history/

Believing what you want

The Pew Research Center recently released an interesting report about identity,
beliefs, and culture among US Catholics. Roman Catholicism is striking in its
combination of (1) a large amount of doctrine and dogma specifying proper
behavior and beliefs, (2) a very centralized hierarchy responsible for
maintaining that doctrine, and (3) a large number of believers who an outsider
might reasonably assume ascribe to the doctrines and accept the authority of
the hierarchy. (The hierarchy and doctrine are basically what sets Catholicism
apart from other Christian denominations; if you didn’t accept them, why would
you still identify as a Catholic?) That’s why I find it so fascinating to read
about the diversity of opinions and values among Catholics, especially on
issues where the Vatican has taken a clear stance — it’s not something I would
have expected.

You can read the report yourself to see the dramatic numbers of American
Catholics who disagree with the church’s position on priests’ celibacy,
contraceptive use, who should be allowed to receive communion, and other
controversial issues. For now, I’d like to talk about what FiveThirtyEight’s
data analysts found when they compared levels of disagreement with the Catholic
Church with levels of expectation that the church will change its stances. Leah
Libresco (as it happens, a former atheist who converted to Catholicism) writes:

    On every controversy that Pew included in its survey, at least half of
    dissenting Catholics expected that their desired change would probably or
    definitely come to pass by 2050. Catholics who hoped that current teachings
    would remain unchanged were similarly confident that the church of the
    future would be the one they wanted. On all issues, fewer than 40 percent
    of Catholics holding to current orthodoxy thought a change was likely.

In other words, if you are a Catholic who thinks the church should hold a
different position on an issue, you tend to believe that it most likely will in
the not-so-distant future. And if you think the church’s current stance is
correct, you tend to believe that it will stay the same.

Percentage saying change is probably/definitely likely

Additionally and perhaps counterintuitively, this effect is stronger among
Catholics who attend Mass regularly. I would certainly have expected these
people to be more aware of the fact that Catholicism is not a democracy, but
perhaps as Leah suggests it can be explained as a resolution of cognitive
dissonance.

Now, this isn’t really news: we’ve known for years that people’s beliefs about
God are essentially a reflection of their own personal opinions, rather than —
as religious people might hope — the other way around. It’s interesting,
though, to see that thought pattern applied not only to beliefs about
supernatural beings but also to beliefs about religious institutions. After
all, institutions are not nearly as mysterious as the deities they purport to
represent. Institutions have centuries of reliably-recorded history we can
refer to, not to mention stated policies about how they operate. (The Catholic
Church is not known for changing its mind quickly in response to changes in
public opinion.) At any rate, here’s one more example of people believing what
they most want to be true, rather than what the evidence supports.

Share this:

  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • 

No Comments
by NFQ on September 10, 2015  •  Permalink
Tagged catholicism, psychology
Posted by NFQ on September 10, 2015

http://www.noforbiddenquestions.com/2015/09/believing-what-you-want/

On “warped thinking and terrible doctrine”

Commenter Luke Holzmann wrote in response to a recent post:

    [For] me, the teachings of Christ (if not the Torah itself) — long before
    secular humanism — gave us reason to value both body and soul. It is warped
    thinking and terrible doctrine that believes those coerced into the Kingdom
    of God are part of it. While it is true that God doesn’t want anyone to
    perish, the path to the Kingdom is narrow and is one that requires a
    radically transformed experience or renewed life … something that can’t be
    beaten, tortured, or burned into you. Indeed, at least in Christian
    thought, only Christ can save us because only He can heal us.

Some context: secular humanists are fond of pointing out that, because we
believe this life is all we have, we are motivated to care for each other and
for the world, out of a desire to make our lives as good as possible but also
out of empathy for others who are also living (or will, in the future, be
living) their only lives. This is presented in contrast to religious belief
systems in which an infinite afterlife is guaranteed to outweigh the concerns
of this mortal coil in any expected value calculation. Indeed, this is
essentially the premise of that old favorite Christian apologetic, Pascal’s
Wager. It also underlies the argument some Christians make against
environmentalism: that God gave humanity the Earth and its resources to use (or
use up), and since the apocalypse will come any day now, caring too much about
the environment shows that you don’t really trust in God’s plan.

Of course, not all Christians are against environmentalism. Some Christians are
dedicated to the cause. In particular contrast to the links above, I’d make
note of the Evangelical Climate Initiative and the Evangelical Environmental
Network, groups which appear to have much theology in common with the
anti-environmentalists but reach different conclusions on this particular
topic.

Luke’s comment refers to another topic, the use of violence to coerce people
into joining the “right” religion. I wrote that if you believe in an infinite
afterlife of either reward or torment, a relatively small amount of pain now
can seem like a trivial price one should have to pay for a saved soul. Luke
calls this “warped thinking and terrible doctrine,” and asserts that true
Christian faith “can’t be beaten, tortured, or burned into you.” I’m glad he
thinks this — it means that he personally knows that torture is wrong, even in
the service of noble goals. The vast majority of Christians today also hold
this stance.

But surely we can all acknowledge that this has not always been the mainstream
Christian view! The Roman Catholic Church held violent Inquisitions, stamping
out purported heresies and trying to verify that converts to Catholicism hadn’t
secretly reverted to their old faiths, for around six and a half centuries. (I
had no idea it lasted that long until I looked it up just now.) And it’s not
just the Catholics. Protestant leader John Calvin wrote, “Whoever shall
maintain that wrong is done to heretics and blasphemers in punishing them makes
himself an accomplice in their crime and guilty as they are,” and endorsed
Michael Servetus‘s execution by burning at the stake because of his “execrable
blasphemies.” While Martin Luther initially preached tolerance toward Jews,
once he encountered difficulty winning them over to Christianity Luther
advocated that Jews should have their homes and synagogues destroyed, have
their property seized, and be banished unless they converted. This, shall we
say, influenced German thinking for centuries to come.

Is this all warped thinking, terrible doctrine? I say yes, but not in quite the
same sense that Luke does. It sounds like Luke’s criterion for bad theology is,
“Is it different from my own theology?” On the other hand, I think the root of
the problem is drawing moral conclusions based on what an ancient collection of
legends happens to say. Those conclusions might sometimes happen to be good
ones (for example: you should be kind to other people) but might well be bad
ones instead (for example: you should torture those who disagree with you until
they change their mind). Undoubtedly, the Catholic Inquisitors, the early
Calvinists, and the early Lutherans were all reading their Bibles, praying to
God for clarity in their interpretation of scripture, and discussing the finer
points of theology with their more learned colleagues. I’m sure Luke is just as
thoughtful and reverent a Christian as they were. Yet Luke thinks their
conclusions were warped and terrible … and I’m sure they’d have some choice
words for Luke, in return.

Luke says that “the teachings of Christ … gave us reason to value both body and
soul.” I don’t doubt that they did. But they also demonstrably gave us reasons
to devalue human life. Religion has been a positive influence in social and
cultural history, but it has also been a negative influence. I think we would
do better to give up on the back-and-forth about which doctrines are right and
holy and which are terrible and blasphemous, because within the framework of
doctrine the line between the two is ultimately arbitrary. Secular moral
reasoning isn’t perfect either — people can certainly make good and bad
arguments without bringing religion into it at all — but at least when we
operate in a secular framework, it’s more acceptable for us to change our
minds, to be convinced by other people’s superior arguments, to discard our
prior beliefs as no longer worth holding. With a little luck, that process
might even take less than 650 years.

Share this:

  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • 

1 Comment
by NFQ on September 3, 2015  •  Permalink
Tagged beliefs, christianity, history, violence
Posted by NFQ on September 3, 2015

http://www.noforbiddenquestions.com/2015/09/
on-warped-thinking-and-terrible-doctrine/

What is a metaphor?

I think we could use an English class refresher here. Let’s look at our trusty
old Merriam-Webster, shall we? Metaphor:

    : a word or phrase for one thing that is used to refer to another thing in
    order to show or suggest that they are similar

    : an object, activity, or idea that is used as a symbol of something else

That is to say, if something is a metaphor, it’s a metaphor for something else.
You don’t get to say “that’s just a metaphor” and somehow wave away all its
implications. Metaphors still communicate meaning. They just don’t do so
literally; they do it by analogy.

Let’s take the creation story of Genesis 1 as a first example. In response to
what astrophysics. cosmology, and evolutionary biology have shown us about the
history of the universe, the solar system, and the Earth itself, many Jews and
Christians have decided that Genesis 1 is to be taken metaphorically rather
than literally. They acknowledge that the order of “creation” was different
(plants didn’t come before the sun, etc.), the time scale was different (not
days but millions or billions of years), and organisms evolved over time into
the biodiversity we see today (rather than God making everything “according to
their kinds” all at once). We even know that humans weren’t made spontaneously
“in [God’s] own image” but rather that we evolved over millions of years from
an apelike ancestor. That seems to eliminate a lot of possible metaphor fodder.
So then … what is the metaphor being expressed in Genesis 1? Remember,
“metaphor” isn’t a simple synonym for “a totally different statement,” as in
“The six days of creation are a metaphor for the first 13.7 billion years of
the universe.” Unless each “day” is purported to be symbolic of some phase in
cosmology/geology/evolution (which doesn’t line up, as I’ve already mentioned),
this isn’t a metaphor, it’s just incorrect.

How about a second example? More liberal sects of Abrahamic religions dismiss
the extreme punishments described in their scriptures as metaphorical, not
meant to be taken literally today. Not only does this sweep under the rug the
fact that these punishments were taken literally by believers in the past, it
also ignores the message that these verses would still contain even if read as
metaphor. When your deity commands you to execute people who are “guilty” of
worshiping a different god, or working on the sabbath, or having been raped, or
engaging in homosexual sex … even if we grant that the death penalty itself is
not literal, the metaphor clearly expressed here is that these things are all
terribly, terribly bad! There are plenty of other crimes described in
scriptures that do not warrant the (metaphorical?) death penalty; the obvious
implication is that those actions are less bad.

Finally, a third, easy example. When Jesus refers to himself as “the good
shepherd” and his followers as “the sheep,” we can tell from context that he is
obviously not saying that he literally makes his living as a shepherd or that
his followers are literally wooly ungulates. He means that he provides guidance
and care to his “flock,” and that his followers are obedient to him as well as
dependent on him for safety. See? Metaphor!

There are all sorts of other fun discussions we can get into about how one
knows whether a particular verse was meant to be read metaphorically or
literally. (It certainly seems that believers typically invoke metaphor not
because of careful textual considerations, but simply to avoid scripture that
has inconveniently been proven false by science or become repugnant through
social/moral progress.) But that all has to come later in the conversation.
First, if you’re going to call something a metaphor, you need to be able to
articulate what you are claiming it is a metaphor for. And you need to be
prepared to discuss the implications of that message, just as you might have
had to discuss the literal message of the original text.

Share this:

  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • 

2 Comments
by NFQ on August 31, 2015  •  Permalink
Tagged bible, language, qur'an, torah
Posted by NFQ on August 31, 2015

http://www.noforbiddenquestions.com/2015/08/what-is-a-metaphor/

Better Angels: From souls to lives

Cover: The Better Angels of Our Nature by Steven PinkerHere’s another
interesting and relevant bit from Stephen Pinker’s The Better Angels of Our
Nature. (Previous post here.) In Chapter 4, “The Humanitarian Revolution,”
Pinker presents a section on “Superstitious Killing: Violence against
Blasphemers, Heretics, and Apostates.” (This is in contrast to superstitious
killing of the “Human Sacrifice, Witchcraft, and Blood Libel” variety, which he
discusses in an earlier section.)

While there’s certainly plenty of this kind of violence going on around the
world — the recent gruesome murders of several secular bloggers in Bangladesh
come to mind, among many other tragic events that have made headlines in the
past year or so — one has to admit that it used to be much more common than it
is today. The big news items concerning these violent acts are typically the
work of vigilantes and are broadly condemned. True, thirteen countries do still
have the death penalty for those “convicted of atheism,” and other countries do
have criminal punishments concerning blasphemy or other discrimination allowed
by law. Nevertheless, how did we go from a world where the torture and/or
murder of nonbelievers (or different-believers) was an unremarkable, possibly
even praiseworthy part of life, to the modern world where fewer and fewer
countries have laws against blasphemy at all?

A brief note before the blockquote: in this section Pinker is discussing Europe
and “Western Civ” specifically, but the book does look at the world as a whole.
At any rate, I’m writing in the US, so these paragraphs are pretty directly
applicable to the intellectual tradition I’m living in.

    What made Europeans finally decide that it was all right to let their
    dissenting compatriots risk eternal damnation and, by their bad example,
    lure others to that fate? Perhaps they were exhausted by the Wars of
    Religion, but it’s not clear why it took thirty years to exhaust them
    rather than ten or twenty. One gets a sense that people started to place a
    higher value on human life. Part of this newfound appreciation was an
    emotional change: a habit of identifying with the pains and pleasures of
    others. And another part was an intellectual and moral change: a shift from
    valuing souls to valuing lives. The doctrine of the sacredness of the soul
    sounds vaguely uplifting, but in fact is highly malignant. It discounts
    life on earth as just a temporary phase that people pass through, indeed,
    an infinitesimal fraction of their existence. Death becomes a mere rite of
    passage, like puberty or a midlife crisis.

    The gradual replacement of lives for souls as the locus of moral value was
    helped along by the ascendancy of skepticism and reason. No one can deny
    the difference between life and death or the existence of suffering, but it
    takes indoctrination to hold beliefs about what becomes of an immortal soul
    after it has parted company from the body. The 17th century is called the
    Age of Reason, an age when writers began to insist that beliefs be
    justified by experience and logic. That undermines dogmas about souls and
    salvation, and it undermines the policy of forcing people to believe
    unbelievable things at the point of a word (or a Judas’s Cradle).

[Italics are original; bold is mine. Also, if you’re considering a Google
search for “Judas’s Cradle” now, let me just tell you first that it’s a pretty
gross medieval torture device.]

I think this passage is a great articulation of two things: first, the secular
humanist answer to why we care about life and human welfare even though (truly:
because) we don’t believe in any gods or afterlives; and second, why it was
that people were able to stomach being so cruel to each other for so long. If
you really do believe that people are facing a literal forever in either
ultimate bliss or ultimate torment based on their religious beliefs during this
life, it seems more cruel not to do everything you possibly can to convince/
coerce them to have the “correct” beliefs. What’s a bit of torture now,
compared to supernaturally bad torture imposed on you for an infinite amount of
time? If there’s any chance that the bit of torture now (or the threat of
capital punishment, etc.) makes the person recant their heretical ways, you’ve
saved their soul from infinite punishment and exchanged it for infinite reward!

Pinker goes on to describe this new skeptical, scientific mindset and how it
fostered a new attitude about blasphemy. He quotes “French scholar Sebastian
Castellio [who] led the charge by calling attention to the absurdity of
different people being unshakably certain of the truth of their mutually
incompatible beliefs”:

    Calvin says that he is certain, and [other sects] say that they are; Calvin
    says that they are wrong and wishes to judge them, and so do they. Who
    shall be judge? Who made Calvin the arbiter of all the sects, that he alone
    should kill? He has the Word of God and so have they. If the matter is
    certain, to whom is it so? … In view of the uncertainty we must define the
    heretic simply as one with whom we disagree. And if then we are going to
    kill heretics, the logical outcome will be a war of extermination, since
    each is sure of himself.

When we started considering the possibility that we might be wrong — even about
previously unquestioned (and unquestionable) things like the will of God and
the afterlife — we started looking at things through the eyes of our neighbors,
and even the eyes of our enemies. We may not all have the same concerns about
our “immortal souls,” but we all do value the lives we’re living right now,
here on earth. It doesn’t sound like much, but it’s the start of a sympathetic
mindset toward people we disagree with — a big step on the road to peaceful
coexistence.

Share this:

  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • 

3 Comments
by NFQ on August 27, 2015  •  Permalink
Tagged beliefs, book review, culture
Posted by NFQ on August 27, 2015

http://www.noforbiddenquestions.com/2015/08/better-angels-from-souls-to-lives/

Why care about accuracy in scripture?

There are many points of disconnect between how atheists talk about religion
and how religious people think about their own beliefs. I’ve written about
various ones several times before (just a few old posts, but there are plenty
others). However, while I’ve discussed contradictions and errors in scripture
as reasons why I don’t believe — here’s one specifically about Christianity — I
think there’s a common misunderstanding out there about why/whether that should
even matter in the first place. This is what I want to address today.

I’ve often heard different parts of scripture, especially the Bible, compared
by believers to eyewitnesses testifying in a court case. One thing this does is
cement the usually-false idea that the authors of the text were individual,
actual eyewitnesses to the events they describe, rather than groups of people
finally writing down pieces of already-existing legends decades (at least)
after they supposedly happened. The other thing it does is dismiss as
irrelevant any discrepancies between the accounts. After all, memories are
imperfect. One witness might report that the getaway car was blue and another
might say it was black, but they both testify that a robbery occurred; you
might not be certain of the little details but you do have decent evidence of
the basic event.

But the Bible (to stick with this example) isn’t like an eyewitness in a
courtroom getting a few tiny details mixed up. Yes, there are contradictions in
various versions of begats and there are relatively minor differences in the
narratives of the resurrection. But combine this with all of the other
contradictions, not just the easiest ones to dismiss as forgetfulness: the two
very different creation stories that immediately follow each other, the two
different versions of the Noah’s ark story mixed up together, the assertions
that don’t make sense (with each other, or with history) about the
circumstances of Jesus’s birth, the prophecies which Jesus is said to fulfill
which don’t match the prophecies actually given earlier in the text, the
unfulfilled promises that anything prayed for in Jesus’ name will be granted,
the conflicting information about whether faith alone is enough to save your
soul… the list goes on and on. My objection isn’t just that any one specific
detail is reported in conflicting or otherwise erroneous ways; it’s the
overwhelming preponderance of these contradictions that undermines the
trustworthiness of the Bible as a whole.

When you add it all up, the Bible starts to look less like a witness who got
flustered and misspoke, and more like that flaky acquaintance you sometimes run
into at parties who’s prone to lies and exaggerations. He’s late to things or
doesn’t follow through on plans, but he always has an elaborate excuse about
how everything coincidentally went wrong for him at the last minute in ways
outside of his control. He has a girlfriend in Canada who’s really amazing and
totally into him. He claims to personally know celebrities to one-up other
people’s stories, and he seems to know a relevant celebrity for every
conversation. The majority of what he says is plausible enough when considered
in isolation, but his claims are so convenient and you’ve caught him in enough
lies at this point that you don’t take what he says seriously anymore. And when
he tells you a really unlikely story, you’re even less inclined to trust him.

The thing is, supernatural claims are by their very nature extremely unlikely.
“Supernatural” refers to phenomena not caused by the natural world we can
measure and study with our usual tools of observation. We don’t encounter many
deities on a regular basis in our everyday lives, the way we encounter buses
running behind schedule, unexpectedly bad traffic, or people in long-distance
relationships. Our prior probabilities for miracles are incredibly low – in
fact, that’s basically what it means when people say some event
was “miraculous”: very rare to the point of being unexpected. So if you tell me
that Jesus returned to life after his crucifixion and then ascended to heaven,
and you point to the Bible as evidence for this …I look at all the errors and
inconsistencies in the Bible and I take you about as seriously as if you had
just told me that you know a guy who once had dinner with Steve Jobs, Steve
Buscemi, and Steve Austin, and then you point to our flaky friend from the
previous paragraph.

But let’s take it one level further. Without the Bible as an authoritative
document supporting the various claims of Christianity and its founding
narratives, there isn’t actually any reason left to suppose the existence of
the Christian god in the first place. (It goes similarly for the Qur’an and the
Muslim god, for the Torah and the Jewish god, etc.) Remove that scripture from
play, and you completely remove the entire premise of the belief system. This
is what I’m trying to get at when I start listing contradictions: not that I’m
a nitpicking perfectionist, but rather that the purported evidence for
religious belief is so unreliable that I can’t even follow it to step 1 of
believing.

Share this:

  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • 

No Comments
by NFQ on August 24, 2015  •  Permalink
Tagged bible, evidence, history, logic, qur'an, torah
Posted by NFQ on August 24, 2015

http://www.noforbiddenquestions.com/2015/08/
why-care-about-accuracy-in-scripture/

Better Angels: Religious hypocrisy

Cover: The Better Angels of Our Nature by Steven PinkerI’ve recently finished
reading Steven Pinker’s The Better Angels of Our Nature, via a recommendation
from Adam Lee (and subsequent enthusiastic endorsement from my husband). In it,
Pinker lays out the evidence that, although it might feel like the modern world
is worse than ever, violence has been on the decline for centuries and we’re
living in the most peaceful time in human history. It’s a rather long read but
a worthy one — its length is because it’s so thorough. Filled with historical
data examined from many angles, supplemented by explanations from evolutionary
biology and neuroscience, it makes a very compelling case (though not without
controversy).

At any rate, it is not my intention to review the book in detail here. In the
four years since it was published, plenty of others have taken care of that.
Rather, I want to highlight a few of Pinker’s elegantly-worded insights which I
found particularly relevant to our usual topics.

Let’s start with this pair of disclaimers from Chapter 1. After recounting many
of the atrocities in the Tanakh/Old Testament, Pinker writes:

    If you think that by reviewing the literal content of the Hebrew Bible I am
    trying to impugn the billions of people who revere it today, then you are
    missing the point. The overwhelming majority of observant Jews and
    Christians are, needless to say, thoroughly decent people who do not
    sanction genocide, rape, slavery, or stoning people for frivolous
    infractions. Their reverence for the Bible is purely talismanic. In recent
    millennia and centuries the Bible has been spin-doctored, allegorized,
    superseded by less violent texts (the Talmud among Jews and the New
    Testament among Christians), or discreetly ignored. And that is the point.
    Sensibilities toward violence have changed so much that religious people
    today compartmentalize their attitude to the Bible. They pay it lip service
    as a symbol of morality, while getting their actual morality from more
    modern principles.

And later in the chapter, after discussing the martyrs and torture customs of
early Christianity:

    Once again, the point of this discussion is not to accuse Christians of
    endorsing torture and persecution. Of course most devout Christians today
    are thoroughly tolerant and humane people. Even those who thunder from
    televised pulpits do not call for burning heretics alive or hoisting Jews
    on the strappado. The question is why they don’t,  given that their beliefs
    imply that it would serve the greater good. The answer is that people in
    the West today compartmentalize their religious ideology. When they affirm
    their faith in houses of worship, they profess beliefs that have barely
    changed in two thousand years. But when it comes to their actions, they
    respect modern norms of nonviolence and toleration, a benevolent hypocrisy
    for which we should all be grateful.

[Italics are original.]

I’m often bewildered and frustrated by these apparent incongruities in
religious beliefs. When I point out particularly appalling selections from
scripture to religious folks, thinking that I’m making the case that the
scripture is not a good source of ideal morality — or when I point out deeply
egregious behavior in a religion’s past (or present), thinking I’m making the
case that even these extremely devout believers were clearly not inspired by
any benevolent deity — the discussion always goes nowhere. The religious person
I’m talking to handwaves it away with “metaphor,” or “free will,” or “it was a
different time” — or my favorite, “I’ll have to ask my [religious leader] about
that and get back to you.” (They never do.) I can’t quite get them to make the
connection between their religion’s tradition/history and the current beliefs
they purport to hold.

But Pinker’s angle here makes it possible for me to rest a bit easier. Of
course people don’t see a conflict between all that bad stuff and their
religious beliefs: they’re in totally separate mental boxes! It must seem
bizarre to them that I would bring one thing up, and then transition to the
other as though some kind of logical relationship was involved. Additionally,
and honestly, I do share Pinker’s gratitude for this. The compartmentalization
of religion from everyday behavior has greatly improved the quality of life in
modern societies. I would much rather live in a world where religious people
ignored all the nasty bits of their faiths than in a world where they adhered
to every jot and tittle (as it were).

Naturally, I would like it even more if believers could go that one next step,
see the logical problems, and reject faith itself as an antiquated and
unreliable means of truth-finding. But in the meantime, my religious friends,
from the bottom of my heart … thank you for being hypocrites.

Share this:

  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • 

No Comments
by NFQ on August 20, 2015  •  Permalink
Tagged beliefs, book review, history, violence
Posted by NFQ on August 20, 2015

http://www.noforbiddenquestions.com/2015/08/better-angels-religious-hypocrisy/

I’m back again! I missed you!

Yes, I’m actually coming back to blogging. I’m writing this in July but holding
on to it until I have a couple weeks’ posts in the queue. Hopefully that buffer
will allow me to keep up a consistent posting schedule.

In my last post, I was highlighting what had changed for the atheist movement
between 2008 and 2013. So, now, what’s changed for me in the last year and a
half? I’ve moved, started a new job … I think I’m even starting to get the hang
of this “being an adult” thing.

Due to a variety of factors, I don’t come face-to-face with religion as often
as I did a few years ago. That dulled the atheist-blogging itch for me for a
while. But I’m also in a new place with fewer close friends (so far) to have
deep conversations with, and it eventually felt like it was time to resurrect
the blog and put some of my ideas out there again. I miss the community feel of
being an active blogger, even one with a very tiny blog and a small number of
commenters who disagree with me at least as often as not. :) I’ll still keep
things mostly about religious belief/nonbelief and reflections on life as an
atheist, with the customary side of science and evidence/reason-based inquiry
into other topics including current events.

My plan is is to aim for posts on Mondays and Thursdays, with the occasional
secular morality post on a Sunday when I have a good idea for one. I hope to
see you around in the comments! Also, I’m on Twitter most days lately, so feel
free to say hello there too.

Share this:

  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • 

4 Comments
by NFQ on August 17, 2015  •  Permalink
Tagged blog
Posted by NFQ on August 17, 2015

http://www.noforbiddenquestions.com/2015/08/im-back-again-i-missed-you/

Look how far we’ve come

This is a set of three posts I wrote back in September and October of 2008, for
another blog I used to write at (which no longer exists). As 2013 draws to a
close, I thought it would be neat to look back on where (in my view, at least)
the atheist movement stood five years ago compared to where it stands today.
I’m going to let these paragraphs speak for themselves, for the most part, but
I do want to remind you of the Reason Rally, Sunday Assembly, Women in
Secularism, and African Americans for Humanism. As bleak as things may look 
from time to time, frankly, I’m really proud of how far we’ve come.

Anyway, let’s hop in our time machine and go back to late 2008…

– – – – –

I said in an earlier post that I planned to do a bit of brainstorming on what
we as skeptical and/or atheist bloggers ought to be doing with our time, if
we’re not rehashing the old skeptical and/or atheist classics. (Forgive me if I
conflate atheism and skepticism a bit in this post. In my experience around the
blogosphere, the two respective groups of bloggers overlap quite a lot, and
their overall objectives are very closely aligned, so for all intents and
purposes of this entry they are the same.) Here is what I’ve thought of since
then.

My primary inclination is to suggest that we include a larger range of issues
within the skeptical canon. Instead of just writing about alternative medicine
or alien sightings, we can find some other aspects of life to be skeptical
about as well. We can question claims made in advertising, or critique the
methods in academic papers. We can point out when politicians promote blatantly
false ideas. Anything with facts is worthy of a skeptic’s attention. If you’re
writing a skeptical blog, rather than just being a skeptic while blogging, I
understand an inclination to stick with the standard sorts of debunking. As for
the rest of us, though, there are topics we can shift towards so as not to be
quite as redundant.

Straight-up activism is certainly a good idea as well. If we assume, as seems
to be the case, that most people reading skeptical or atheist blogs are
themselves skeptics or atheists, this could be a very effective way of
organizing. Hemant Mehta at Friendly Atheist has recently tapped into this on
behalf of Kay Hagan, a candidate for North Carolina state senate who got
attacked for planning to meet with an atheist organization. There are lots of
ways that a skeptical or atheist viewpoint is relevant to politics, and if you
want to create real change in society in the direction of that viewpoint, you
should work to elect people you believe represent it and vote out of office
those who are counterproductive. In addition to just blogging about John
McCain’s comments about a link between vaccines and autism, we should be
protesting about it at his speaking events. (Maybe use your blog to assemble
protesters.) In addition to just writing about false advertising claims made
for alternative medicine, call on your local district attorney to prosecute
chiropractors and crystal healers and homeopaths in your area when they make
unsubstantiated claims of healing. (Maybe use your blog to distribute a
template letter to send to the DA’s office.) There’s plenty of work to be done.

Finally, there’s the question of unity as a group. There’s a lot of talk about
the “atheist community” or the “skeptical movement” and what its goals are.
It’s difficult to have a movement or a coherent set of group goals without some
infrastructure. As much as I’m wary of the election of an atheist pope or some
such central authority of a group based on thinking for yourself, I think these
organizations have a place at least insofar as lobbying and publicity are
concerned. Rather than have people seeing one dude here or there interviewed on
the local news, or have a legislator receiving an occasional letter from
individual constituents, we want to present a stronger message. A spokesperson
on TV saying he represents so many millions of people looks a lot more
compelling. Many groups of this sort already exist, such as Americans United
for the Separation of Church and State, the National Center for Science
Education, the Skeptics Society, and the Secular Coalition for America. (There
are of course many others; this is just a sampling.) Joining and/or donating to
these groups will make them more effective at publicizing skeptical and secular
perspectives.

That’s all I’ve got for now, but not forever. I have a few other ideas still
percolating, and I’ll post again about them soon. In the meantime, let me know
what you think about these ideas — if they’re good, crazy, infeasible,
irrelevant… whatever.

– – – – –

Following up on my first list of ideas, here are some more thoughts I have on
what skeptics, atheists, and skeptical and/or atheist bloggers can do in order
to add something new and repeat ourselves less. If you’re here via the
Skeptics’ Circle #95 link to the earlier list, welcome! (And if you haven’t
read the current Skeptics’ Circle, you’re welcome here too, but you should go
check it out!)

The issue of community seems like the elephant in the room, which is why I want
to focus on it now. We talk about the skeptical movement or the atheist
community — but what are those? I feel like a shared respect for critical
thinking is not enough to fuel a social organization. For a group focused on
faith, it makes a bit more sense to have, well, a congregation. There are holy
words to be studied and dogmas to be memorized; there are inner doubts
requiring the support (or pressure, depending on how you see it) of a peer
group to assuage them. I have a hard time imagining an atheist group meeting —
what do you talk about there?

However absurd, I think we ought to try to foster these communities, since one
real benefit to being part of a religious group is the fellowship and
friendship it offers. It’s good for that to be available without having to
profess beliefs in the literal truth of fairy tales and magic. So, we need to
have something for those groups to do. That’s one topic for blogging I’d like
to see more about. If you’re part of one of these organizations, what do you
do? Even if you’re not, what do you think would make a good meeting? Do you
play Trivial Pursuit? Watch movies like The Core and pick them apart
MST3K-style? Do you organize a lecture series? (Who do you invite?) Tell us
what works and what doesn’t, or what would get you to show up versus what would
get you to unsubscribe from the mailing list. On a related note, I also like
how the Skepchick blog makes use of the opportunity to advertise meet-ups.

We also need to have some open dialogue about how to make these groups what we
collectively want them to be. I’ve already seen a bit of writing about how to
make skeptical groups more inclusive, and how (or, whether) to reach out to
demographics that are underrepresented without reason in most skeptics’
organizations, but I think more people should get involved in the discussion. A
few good examples, in my opinion, can be found in this pro and this contra
opinion about recruiting women into skeptical organizations, as well as this
post on bringing people in the arts, humanities, and social sciences into the
fold. I’m sure that topics that are not specifically related to diversity, but
are more generally about recruiting and publicity successes and failures, would
be well-received too.

I’m planning on writing one more installment in this series, on how to be most
effective at reaching out to non-skeptics and getting our message across. In
the meantime, please let me know in the comments if you think I make sense or
if you think I’m a lunatic.

– – – – –

In editions #1 and #2 of this series, I explained some ways I think atheist and
/or skeptical bloggers can make and keep themselves relevant and useful. This
is my last intended installment (at least, in such a formal sense), and I
intend to use it to talk about getting the word out and educating the public.
After all, the one good thing about having so many near-identical blog posts
about Bigfoot, or about intelligent design, or whatever else, is that when
someone searches the internet for “Bigfoot” or “intelligent design” their
likelihood of finding a skeptical site instead of a credulous one is increased.
Marginally, of course. Messing with Google rankings is a slow and dismal
process. The goal, though, is an important one: making sure the public has an
opportunity (and a meaningful probability) of hearing a skeptical perspective.

Perhaps the way to get better search traffic is something more along the lines
of linking the word Expelled to the site Expelled Exposed when writing about
Ben Stein’s movie. True, the traffic goes somewhere else, not our blogs (one
reason I suspect it might be tempting for every blogger to write their own
posts on these topics) — but if a good explanation has already been written
with expertise, we should make a practice of linking to it when relevant,
rather than wasting time and energy reinventing the wheel. I could imagine a
pretty slick sidebar add-on or widget with a headline like, “There’s no
evidence for:” and a (scrolling?) list of links beneath it, including whichever
things you wanted to debunk.

With all that time we save linking to preexisting well-written skeptical
essays, I’m sure we can come up with lots of other worthwhile discussion about
how to more effectively express the value of a scientific mindset and a respect
for evidence. Remember, lots of people aren’t on the internet as often as we
are, and most people aren’t changing their mind because they read one snarky
blog. They’re forming their opinions about science and evidence out there in
the real world, so we should talk about and work towards taking our advocacy
there.

I read several interesting posts a couple weeks ago by Steven Novella about how
to improve science education, science textbooks, and support for science
teachers. It’s clear just from the comments there that not everyone agrees with
his opinions (although, in very large part, I do) but at any rate, it’s surely
a conversation we ought to be having. Skeptics can make a great contribution to
science education, in some cases by being great teachers or involved parents,
but also just as regular, not-directly-related citizens, going to speak at a
school board meeting or writing letters to local lawmakers. The education
doesn’t just happen in school buildings, of course. Maybe we should be going
door-to-door. (I know I linked a comic there, but in all seriousness, I love
that idea.) Maybe we should be passing out flyers on the sidewalk in front of
the Creation Museum or the Discovery Institute. These educational toys are a
great example of thinking outside of the box about this issue. Both the
strategies we should to get our message out and the content of our message are
worth some discussion on our blogs.

As usual, I’m looking forward to hearing your thoughts about this in the
comments. More importantly though, I hope I’ve given you some food for thought
if you have a blog of your own.

Share this:

  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • 

1 Comment
by NFQ on December 30, 2013  •  Permalink
Tagged atheism, identity, skepticism
Posted by NFQ on December 30, 2013

http://www.noforbiddenquestions.com/2013/12/look-how-far-weve-come/

Apologetics and apologies

This is a post I wrote back on January 30, 2009, for another blog I used to
write at (which no longer exists). Some of the references are a bit dated, but
the ideas are as true as ever, and I thought the content would likely be
interesting to NFQ readers.

I’ve always been into etymology and linguistics. I love knowing where words
come from, and how all the little nuances in connotation are related to
previous forms of the word or previous meanings. In second grade, during a unit
about food groups and nutrition, the teacher asked if there were any questions,
and I raised my hand and said: “Why is a tomato called a tomato?” The teacher
looked puzzled, and said, “That’s an interesting question, but that’s not what
we’re talking about right now. I’m only looking for questions about the food
pyramid.” I nodded seriously and thought I understood, but two seconds later my
hand was up in the air again: “Why is a cucumber called a cucumber?”

I suppose it makes sense, then, that today I am fixated on the meaning of the
word “apologetics,” in the religious context. Lately, apologist Lee Strobel has
been answering readers’ questions over at Friendly Atheist (parts one, two,
three) and Martin has been answering Lee’s questions for atheists at The
Atheist Experience (parts one and two). A lot of the dialogue, while good and
useful, seems kind of old-hat to me, and though I considered it I couldn’t get
excited about answering Lee’s questions myself or about questioning/refuting
his answers to atheists. I am hung up on people calling themselves
“apologists,” though. What does that really mean?

The reason my mind is twisted around this question is because the word is
clearly related to apologize, apologetic, and apology. In conventional usage,
these mean: to say you’re sorry, how sorry you feel, and the statement of
sorriness itself. Are all these Christians really sorry about their faith,
sorry about how Christians treat non-Christians, sorry about all the bigotry
and violence? Are they expressing regrets about their religion? No, in general
they are not (or at least, that’s not their point). Usually they’re doing the
exact opposite.

The word apology comes from the Greek apo- meaning “from, off, away from” and
logos meaning “word, speech.” Apologos means “account” or “story,” while
apologeisthai means “to speak in one’s defense” or simply “to give an account,”
and apologia refers to the defense itself. The original sense of apologizing,
it seems, was justifying and explaining oneself or one’s actions. The OED says
that to be apologetic is to be vindicatory! It wasn’t until 1594 that
apologizing was first recorded meaning something like we typically imagine
today, and it didn’t enter common usage until the 18th century.

On the one hand, being apologetic means expressing regrets and admitting guilt.
Simultaneously, though, it means defending one’s ideas or behavior in order to
seek vindication. This difference is more than a dash of nuance. They’re
actually opposite things.

It’s nice to know that my confusion was not completely unfounded, but I still
feel intellectually uneasy about this. Do Christian apologists continue to call
themselves that because it’s traditional, even though most people aren’t used
to hearing the word “apology” in that sense? Do they think it makes them sound
kinder and gentler? That was the picture it originally painted for me. I
thought that apologetics would be the inclusive, interfaith outreach
activities. Oh-ho, that is incorrect. I mean, I’m glad they don’t use a more
confrontational-sounding vocabulary (I’m looking at you, Campus Crusade for
Christ), but I do wonder if it isn’t a bit disingenuous.

(One last question: how did that happen to our language? My only guess is that
the meanings do sort of overlap in the case of an apology in the style of
William Carlos Williams… in other words, here is what I did wrong, but here is
why I did it and why it seemed right at the time.)

Share this:

  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • 

1 Comment
by NFQ on December 17, 2013  •  Permalink
Tagged apologetics, language
Posted by NFQ on December 17, 2013

http://www.noforbiddenquestions.com/2013/12/apologetics-and-apologies/

<< Older Posts

  • [                    ] [Search]
  • Subscribe with RSS

    RSS Feed RSS - Posts

    RSS Feed RSS - Comments

  • Recent Posts

      □ Learning our history
      □ Believing what you want
      □ On “warped thinking and terrible doctrine”
      □ What is a metaphor?
      □ Better Angels: From souls to lives
  • Recent Comments

      □ Tomaat23XX on Bible dealbreakers: The covenant
      □ Tomaat23XX on Bible dealbreakers: The covenant
      □ Missu on Learning to be an evangelist
      □ Paul on Better than a hallelujah?
      □ angrydisciple on Bible dealbreakers: Bad science
      □ Remi on Don’t treat your child like an arrow
      □ Akeriah on What is a god, anyway?
      □ Akeriah on What is a god, anyway?
  • Links

      □ Brute Reason
      □ Conversational Atheist
      □ Daylight Atheism
      □ Good Reason
      □ Gospel Doctrine for the Godless
      □ Greta Christina's Blog
      □ Oh No Ross and Carrie
      □ Question With Boldness
      □ Terahertz
      □ The Atheist Experience
      □ Why Won't God Heal Amputees?
  • NFQ Archive

    NFQ Archive [Select Month        ]
  • Tags

    afterlife apologetics atheism beliefs bible blog catholicism charity
    christianity christmas church-state separation culture customs debate
    discrimination education evangelism evidence evil faith family health
    history humanism humor identity islam judaism justice knowledge language
    law logic love morality music politics prayer psychology qur'an science sex
    sexual orientation torah usa
  • Tweet, tweet!

    My Tweets
  • Find NFQ on…

      □ Facebook
      □ YouTube
      □ StumbleUpon
      □ IntenseDebate
      □ Disqus
  • Mojoey’s Atheist Blogroll

    Join the best atheist themed blogroll!

  
Send to Email Address Your Name [                    ] Your Email Address 
[                         ] loading [Send Email] Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
