Toggle navigation
|

  • Home

Planet Atheism

Islam Against Atheism

Posted under Atheism, Is atheism is a religion?, Islam Against Atheism, Planet
Atheism, Religious Preference in the United States, Religious Preference in USA
, What is Next For Atheism in America on September 20th, 2015

Atheism is when an individual chooses not to believe in the existence of any
deities. It is stating the position that there are no deities, or the absence
of belief that there is a higher power governing the life of man.

To be an atheist means to reject the idea that there are gods in the Universe
and to be an atheist means to question every religious belief that exists and
being taught. Atheists are individuals who believe in the supremacy of human
logic and reasoning; an atheist will rely on scientific principles and research
and use this to conduct their daily living.

In the United States of America, 83% would identify themselves as Christians
and the remaining 13% will identify themselves as having no religion or being
an atheist. The remaining 4% are following non-Christian religions such as
Judaism, Islam, and Buddhism.

Atheists are free thinkers, they have no certain religious beliefs and
traditions that they follow. There are no codes and religious conducts, they
are not required by any church to stop drinking beer, or doing drugs and they
believe in freedom as a way of life.

Atheists cannot be quantified and measured, while there are some who frequently
have sex, do drugs and alcohol not everyone is in this percentage. There are
many Atheists that do contain good moral value even though they don’t follow a
Holy doctrine. There are also Atheists who are scientists, researchers,
teachers, physicians, doctors as well as well known celebrities.

Islam is very much against Atheism because it contradicts their traditional
beliefs especially the ones that are written in the holy book of Islam the
Qu’ran.

Most Atheist no longer believe in traditional marriage, and would not follow
certain social conducts being imposed by the church; this is seen as a threat
by most religions especially Islam.

However, this is not a belief that all Muslims participate in, there are some
Islam believers that are very accepting of other people’s beliefs, it will all
boil down to the perception of the individual who is following a certain
religion. If they can be open minded and know as well as accept that it is
alright for other people in the world to not believe in the same way of life
that they believe in then they will be able to come to terms with the lack of
beliefs that Atheists possess. This will mean for a peaceful union between
them.

Definition of Atheism

Posted under Atheism, Definition of Atheism, Is atheism is a religion?, Planet
Atheism on August 27th, 2015

Atheism is defined as a lack of belief in supreme beings. An atheist may be a
person who actively repudiates religion or someone who simply does not believe
in a god.

Atheism is often confused with or conflated with agnosticism, but the two are
fundamentally different. Agnosticism is the belief that humans are not capable
of knowing whether or not there is a god whereas atheism is based on the
definite proposition that no god exists. Atheism is also distinct from deism, a
theistic belief that rejects the divine revelations professed by organized
religions.

The term atheism comes from the Greek language. It is a combination of theos,
meaning “gods”, and the prefix a, meaning “not” or “without”. For most of
history, it was applied pejoratively to individuals who strayed from the
majority religion. Few people would openly call themselves atheists for fear of
religious persecution, which often included the death penalty.

Nevertheless, atheistic ideas have been expressed by philosophers and
scientists throughout history. Greek philosophers such as Democritus, Critias,
and Prodicus made statements that are interpreted as denials of a supreme
being’s existence. Some branches of ancient Indian philosophy are atheistic.
During the Middle Ages, the Islamic world produced a few atheistic thinkers as
well such as Muhammad al Warraq, Ibn al-Rawandi, and Al-Razi.

In recent decades, an active atheist movement – sometimes called “New Atheism”
– has emerged that aims to reduce the influence of religion in public life and
promote reason and skepticism as guiding principles for society. This movement
has centered around the works of philosophers such as Richard Dawkins, Sam
Harris, Daniel Dennett, and the late Christopher Hitchens.

Atheists may subscribe to a variety of ethical philosophies that do not involve
divine commands. These may be rooted in biology, utility, or virtue. Some
atheists dispute that a person is truly moral if they are acting out of fear of
divine retribution instead of ethical principles.

Atheists are the minority in most countries, but the highest concentrations are
found in Europe, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand. Countries with the fewest
atheists are in Africa, the Middle East, and South America. Some statistics
show that more people in developed countries are becoming atheists, but the
worldwide percentage of atheists may be decreasing due to low birth rates in
heavily atheist countries and high birth rates in strongly religious countries.
It should be kept in mind that actual demographics are difficult to come by
because of the prevalent social stigma against atheism.

Atheist Is Not Synonymous With Addict?

Posted under Atheism, Planet Atheism, Religious Preference in USA on March 1st,
2015

One common thought that the majority of adults hold is that Atheists have loose
morals. People tend to think that because someone is an Atheist they are more
likely to indulge in things that are frowned upon by those with high standards.
This is not the case. Atheism and having morals are too separate entity’s. Just
because someone is an Atheist, doesn’t mean that they are automatically
addicted to sex, drugs, and alcohol. Although, some trends do seem to suggest
that.

First, let’s talk about sex. Many know that those who believe in God have the
belief that sex is bad before marriage. Therefore, there are some that stay
away from it until then. The reality though is that most people have sex before
marriage and don’t really care what God things about it. Not everyone, but
some. Therefore, the same goes for Atheists. Of course, they don’t have to
worry about the fact that God will smite them if they have premarital sex. That
does not mean that all Atheists go out and sleep with everyone. They also have
morals. Some still believe that they want to be in love first or they want to
wait till the right time. Being an Atheist is not synonymous with being a sex
addict.

Next up is drugs and alcohol. Again, people who believe in a religion, no
matter what it is, tend to all think that God frowns about drugs and alcohol.
There are teachings and laws that are against in indulging in such behaviors.
They are considered “sinful.” Now, just because an Atheist doesn’t have to
worry about committing a sin, doesn’t mean that they all go out and abuse drugs
and alcohol. Of course, it might increase the possibility. Atheists still worry
about the dangers, the health risks, and the costs of drugs and alcohol. They
consider other things aside from whether or not it’s a sin like other religions
think.

Overall, the possibility could be increased for atheists to indulge in these
behaviors. Addiction is a strong word though and I wouldn’t say that they are
addicted. The likeliness is increased because they don’t have to worry about
committing a sin but it’t not always true. It’s not right to group all atheists
into one category and say they’re a bunch of sex, alcohol, and drug addicts.
Again, it all comes down to personal choice. Atheists could find things wrong
with these behaviors other than the fact that they are sinful.

Atheism and Las Vegas Escorts

Posted under Atheism, Atheism and Las Vegas Escorts, Planet Atheism on January
30th, 2015

Las Vegas Sign

Hiring an escort in Las Vegas is extremely common. Preferences regarding male
and female escorts are nearly equal. A rise in nationwide Atheistic belief has
contributed to the popularity of hiring Las Vegas escorts, as well as, the
choice to enter the escort occupation.Atheism is the personal philosophy
centered on earthly living as the final, and most poignant aspect of life. This
belief is counter to any structured traditional, or spiritual believe. It
maintains that the human experience is the end-all to all knowledge. If hiring
and escort, or being an escort is against the tenants of any religion, Atheism
attempts to negate these taboos. Hiring, or working as an escort in a city like
Las Vegas is perfectly acceptable with an Atheistic outlook. Since Atheism
suggests that the human experience is the final authority on all actions, there
is no moral or ethical roadblock between humans following their impulses. This
includes following an appetite for carnal pleasure.Atheism has grown
significantly in the United States in the past fifty years. In 1962, census
statistics show that as much as 93% of Americas identified as belonging to a
religious order, while 2% did not. In 2012, the numbers shifted to 78%
religious and 19% non-religious respectively. Atheism is the major influence of
the non-religious group.Some Atheists following their “non-belief” to the
extreme, and become dependent on certain substances and lifestyle behaviors.
Because the Atheist philosophy does not include a deistic, or religious moral
weight, these dependencies are considered no more than strong physiological and
biological reactions to stimuli. Sex, drug use, and mainstream club affinity is
seen as neither positive, nor negative. Without the accountability of morals
from a deity, or religious organization, Atheism does not place emotive, or
spiritual importance on the lifestyle in which escorts operate.Religious groups
like Islam are adamantly opposed to the hiring-of escorts, and working in the
adult industries as an escort. The Koranic texts place all sex trades in the
category of abominable sin. With an ingrained sense of morality, a person like
a Las Vegas escort is not only considered to be corrupt and sinful, but
embodies the Islamic definition of evil. Strict codes and behaviors are
described in Islamic texts regarding the carnal relationships between men and
women. All sexual activity must be sanctified in some way, so the nature of an
escort is, in all ways, opposed to the Islamic sense of sexuality. The edicts
of Islam not only warn their followers to stay away from non-sanctified
relations, but also advocate forms of violence against it.Places like Las Vegas
have benefited from the escort industry for decades. Based on mainstream
trends, this industry will probably take root in regions outside of the State
of Nevada. Atheistic threads which advocate the absence of judgment on
traditionally cloaked lifestyles, are spreading in the United States. Along
with other world events, escort services have less and less of a negative
connotation in many places.

Source:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Religion_in_the_United_States

What is Next For Atheism in America?

Posted under Atheism, Planet Atheism, What is Next For Atheism in America, wiki
on December 27th, 2014

2007

First and foremost, is it important to acknowledge what Atheism is. A lot of
people get it confused with skeptics and with agnostics. These are all
different terminologies that have similar yet different meanings. Atheists are
those who do not believe God exists and who also don’t even consider the
possibility that he does. People become atheists for a variety of different
reasons. Some of them are born with the belief, others learn it, and some have
too many bad things happen to them in life so they are closed off to the
possibility. No matter what the reason, there is one thing that should be
acknowledged. Atheism occurs quite frequently in America. It’s also been on the
rise. The question in many peoples mind is what’s next? Could this possibly
become the main belief? Are Atheists going to take over and have their own
places similar to churches? What happens when the majority of people don’t
believe in God anymore? Will crime rise because of it? All important questions
with all important answers when it comes to Atheism in America.

When people become Atheists, they are pretty set in their ways. There really
isn’t anything that is going to change them. Often, we see people of one
religion switching to others. We never see this with Atheists. They are people
who put a lot of time and thought into this decision and they’re fairly
confident that they are going to stick with it. That’s an important thing to
look at when considering what’s next for Atheism in America. Because of this
fact, Atheists could be the predominant group in America. Their beliefs could
potentially take over. One of the best things about America is the fact that
there is freedom of speech and freedom to worship whatever religion people feel
like. That’s why it’s a lot easier to be an Atheist in America than anywhere
else. Does that mean more people will flock here and grow the population? It’s
a very real possibility.

Another important aspect to consider when looking at whats next for Atheists is
the fact that more young people are adapting this belief and thought process.
Young people will obviously be around longer than older people. That means that
the belief of Atheism isn’t likely to die out anytime soon. Young people are
also more influential and open to a new set of beliefs. That’s why it’s easier
to convert younger people into Atheists.

Overall, the takeaway from what is next for Atheism in America is that it will
most likely be a belief that will keep growing. There are no trends that show
it to be slowing down. Quite the contrary, actually. With younger people
believing, there is a bigger possibility that they will influence others.

Is atheism is a religion?

Posted under Atheism, Is atheism is a religion?, Planet Atheism on November
4th, 2014

Is atheism is a religion

Some people insist that atheism is a religion in and of itself. The rational is
that since God can neither be proven nor disproven, then the assertion of
either viewpoints is unprovable (and thus a matter of ‘faith’); in other words
since there is no way to prove that God exists, then there is no way to prove
that ‘He’ doesn’t exist. Scientifically, it fails in a one key tenant: ‘great
claims require great evidence’.
Since the main thrust of most religions is that an almighty ‘God’ is the
creator of the universe and controls (or at least in some way effects) day to
day occurrences in our world, it should follow that in order to accept this
hypothesis one would need an abundance of evidence to prove the existence of
God (also, there should be an abundant amount of evidence of ‘His’ existence,
since the incidence of occurrence is allegedly so vast). However, the majority
of religions not only offers no proof of God’s existence, but rejects all
concepts of rational objectivity and instead invites their followers to devote
their lives to God based solely on ‘faith’.
Atheism is also distinct from religion in that it lacks any sort of man-made
hierarchies or divination of ‘laws’. There are no ‘leaders’ of atheism. There
is no way to ‘follow’ atheism, except as a personal rejection of the concept of
‘God’ (or Gods) as a means to explaining morality or objective reality. This
sets atheism apart from Satanism or any other cult which believes that ‘God’ is
wrong; atheists simply believe that ‘God’ does not exist.
An important part of atheism to note is that it does not reject morality,
self-improvement, or culturally important ceremonies. Indeed, one may be an
atheist-Jew or an atheist-Buddhist. One can practice meditation and still be an
atheist! Indeed many even believe that Christ was deeply influenced by Buddhism
, and that when he said ‘I am man’ and ‘I am God’ he was introducing the idea
that man himself is ‘God’.
So is atheism a religion? Unabashedly no. But atheist are not amoral. Nor do
they reject human-lead self-improvement. They simply do not ascribe to the
doctrine of ‘faith without reason’. They object to ‘In God We Trust’ and ‘Under
God’ because they bring religion (as outlawed in the first amendment) into the
everyday lives of their children. They reject ‘faith’ and embrace science and
reason.

Religious Preference in the United States

Posted under Atheism, Planet Atheism, Religious Preference in the United States
, Religious Preference in USA on March 11th, 2014

Religion is the USA

Religion is difficult to describe, but for this article, it will be used
interchangeably with “belief in, or worship of god”, “a collection of beliefs”,
“an order of existence”, or “a cultural system.”

US laws prevent the government from meddling or interfering with any religious
organization, institution, or denomination. Perhaps due to this right of an
individual to his own religion in the US, there has grown a great diversity of
religious beliefs and practices. There is a wide assortment of religion in this
country, among which are:

Christians

• Protestants
• Baptists or Southern Baptists
• Catholics
• Evangelicals or Born-Again
• Methodists
• Lutherans
• Mormons
• Jehovah’s Witnesses
• Seventh Day Adventists
• Episcopalian
• Presbyterian
• Many Others

Non-Christians

• Islam
• Judaism
• Hinduism
• Buddhism
• Scientology
• Others

No Religion

• Atheist
• Agnostic

In a brief summary, 83% are Christians, 4% are non-Christian (Muslims, Jews,
Buddhists, etc.), and 13% have no religion (atheists, agnostic) in the US. This
percentile is different, if we compare it with the whole world, where 52% are
non-Christian, roughly 33% are Christian, and about 15% have no religion.

Breaking the numbers down further, polls show that 53% of Americans are
Protestants, 22% are Catholics, and 8% others, like Mormon or Jehovah’s
Witnesses and Seventh Day Adventists.

Most American Protestants (a third of them) are unaffiliated; they are
Protestants, but they don’t belong to a certain denomination. The next big
group calls themselves Baptists or Southern Baptists. The rest of the other
denominations are very small in size.

Almost half of black Americans belong to the Baptist religion, some 15% are
non-denominational and 8% are Methodist. Most blacks are Christian, with only
3% with no religion.

With the whites, Catholics and nonaffiliated Protestants have almost the same
percentage and 13% are Baptists. Thirteen percent of them have no religion or
are atheist or agnostic.

It is noteworthy to see the trend shows that in the US, the number of
Christians is declining and the number of adults with no religion is growing.
This trend is taking place not only in some states but nationwide. The drop in
the number of Christians is most obvious among young adults, but it is also
true among Americans of various ages.

Nonetheless, the US remains as the country where you will find more Christians
than any country in the world, and the mainstream Americans still belong to the
Christian faith.

A greater part of Americans claim that religion plays a very vital role in
their lives, a percentage that is rare among developed countries.

SOURCES:
http://www.pewforum.org/2015/05/12/americas-changing-religious-landscape/
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Religion

Copyright (C) Planet Atheism
