quarkscrew

Screwing the inscrutable, Effing the ineffable – All my postings on this site
are licenced under Creative Commons BY-NC-SA
 
header image
 

Immortals Shouldn’t Die

 January 11, 2016 • 1 Comment

…but if they have to it’s hard to imagine doing it better than David Bowie

(Yes, I’m yet another devastated lifelong fan who stumbled out of bed this
morning to discover that the Dame had quietly passed on. If you’ve read enough
of those, either because he wassn’t that important to you or because you can
bear no more, just pass it by.)

I opened Facebook and at the top of my feed was a post by my brother Eamon,
consisting of the cover of Bowie’s classic album Low and my brother’s comment:
“I am undone.”

That was all it took, I knew, though I still moaned Oh no, oh no no, and tried
to deny for several minutes more, tried to hope it was an error or a hoax or
some bloody damned thing that wasn’t what it was.

It’s an impossible fiction to maintain for any length of time with any person
of Bowie’s fame and reach, but in his case I didn’t really have to confirm with
the authoritative fact checking sites and reliable news sources really –
because David had already said goodbye in inimitable style, in his last album
Blackstar, released on his 69th birthday just a few short days ago. I’d been
listening to it and watching the videos he’d made, and along with I don’t know
how many others the knowledge slammed back into my brain and rearranged the
meaning of it.

He knew he was dying, and being the consummate artist he was he chose to go out
as Robert Louis Stevenson put it:

    Under the wide and starry sky,
    Dig the grave and let me lie.
    Glad did I live and gladly die,
    And I lay me down with a will!

He was ever changing, ever renewing himself, as close as this planet has seen
to an actual Galifreyan TIme Lord, and his final gift to us is as pure and
beautiful and weird and heartbreaking as anything he’d done.

David Bowie has been in my life for what seems all of my life. When my sister
left home and I missed her, she was the girl with the mousy hair, and never
mind that her hair is red as flames. When my heart was broken properly for the
first time, it actually was a girl with long blonde hair and eyes of blue who
brought me the sorrow.  When I ached with loneliness and felt like the oddest
kid in the world, some kind of alien freak, he was the starman who made it okay
to be that way. I was never able to hear the expression “getting your ashes
hauled” without smiling at the memory of losing my virginity to Ashes to Ashes,
funk to funky. When I felt suicidal, his was the voice that said “You’re not
alone! Give me your hand!” When I had my son I sang to him about how his
parents were kooks and to stay in our lover’s story. Growing old far from home
he made me feel the worth of being Thursday’s Child. On and on; his music and
style have informed my life in myriad ways, and like my brother I am undone at
his loss.

I have been watching and listening to Bowie all day today – I called in sick to
work – and I have cried enough tears to save the whole family of The Man Who
Fell To Earth. I’m crying again now.

It may seem odd that I’ve only properly quoted the lines of an older poet of a
bygone age, but there are simply too many of his to choose from, and others who
loved him know them well. I will quote just one, not from his farewell (do seek
out Lazarus, though!) but the early and underrated Conversation Piece:

    And my essays lying scattered on the floor
    Fulfill their needs just by being there
    And my hands shake, my head hurts,
    my voice sticks inside my throat
    I’m invisible and dumb,
    And no-one will recall me

    And I can’t see the water
    for the tears in my eyes.

Share this:

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • 

Posted in Art, beauty, music, Personal, pop culture

Tears for dead children

 January 6, 2016 • Comments Off on Tears for dead children


    “Do you think he was faking it?”

    “I don’t know for sure. One thing I do know, when I heard about Newtown
    first thing I thought was that they’d use it to try to push gun control.”

    “You thought that right away?

    “First thing.”

    “First thing I thought was, why the hell would anyone shoot a bunch of
    little kids?”

    “Well, I thought that too, but it wasn’t the first thing.”

That’s the conversation I overheard in the cafeteria today. The background, for
those who don’t follow these things, is that during President Obama’s
announcement of his (extremely limited and common-sense) Executive Orders on
gun control he was listing some of the more notorious mass killings during his
term in office, and when he got to the Newtown massacre, in which twenty
first-grade schoolchildren were shot dead, he teared up a little on camera.

American conservatives seem to be facing a growing shortage of verbal filters.
I’ll admit I think some inappropriate thoughts myself sometimes, but I try to
keep the ones that make me sound like a total psychopath on the inside, mostly.
I’m at least embarrassed by them.

Okay, that’s just one guy in a cafeteria, admittedly. Maybe he just has a truly
warped sense of humour (though he was completely deadpan about it). It wasn’t a
random oddity that he thought the President might have been faking being upset
by the memory of twenty children being shot dead for no reason, though. It was
proposed by several public conservatives, for example these Fox News television
hosts:

I find it bizarre that anyone would have a hard time believing a father of two
daughters would shed tears thinking about children being killed, but it does
not seem like it’s remarkable among the people who make up the right wing
commentariat, or as far as I can tell among their audience.

Is it that they don’t believe the President is an actual human being, who has
tears for dead children in him to shed? Or is it that they have no empathy of
their own, and project their emptiness on others?

I don’t know, but I worry when attitudes like that are normalised. I don’t want
to live in the kind of society that leaps to those conclusions.

 

Share this:

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • 

Posted in children, current events, government, Guns, Society, United States

I better use this graphic quick!

 January 2, 2016 • 1 Comment

FB_IMG_1451759202698

EDIT: My bad, so far 2016 is on par with last year, one mass shooting per day.

FB_IMG_1451761755538

Share this:

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • 

Posted in current events, Politics, United States

Happy 2016!

 January 1, 2016 • 1 Comment

Fireworks4_amk-public-domainYes, my friends, you have traveled INTO THE
FUTURE!!!!

One minute you were in August of 2014, the next you were whisked over a year to
New Year’s Day 2016. So it would seem if you were going only by my blog
entries, anyway.

As cliched as new beginnings on New Years are, it seemed an appropriate time to
blow the dust off this thing and try to get back into writing somewhere besides
Facebook.

Much has happened since I left you stranded in 2014. I’ve stepped down as
editor of Secular Nation, and have almost entirely withdrawn from organized
atheism entirely. I’m still on the Board of Secular Humanists of the
Lowcountry, and am still their representative on the Affiliate Council of
Atheist Alliance of America, but I’m not very active in either position and
plan to leave both at the next annual meeting. I’m still a member – renewed
today! – but I don’t want to be in the leadership any more.

I’ve come out as polyamorous, not that I was particularly secretive about it,
but I fell in love with an utterly adorable openly poly woman (Hi Mandi!) and
made it “Facebook Official” almost a year ago, so now it’s totally out there. I
am still happy to be in her life, and also with another wonderful poly woman I
met in the interim (Hi Laurie!), and I’ve pretty much decided that any future
relationships are going to have to start with an acceptance that I don’t
believe in exclusivity; I expect I’ll be writing more about that in posts to
come.

When I let the blog lapse I was still grieving over my beloved cat Sebastian.
You can’t replace people, but the void he left is now occupied by these
charming gentlemen, Ruckus and Bobcat (R&B).

R&B

See the heart?

They are also rescue cats, of course, but from a hospice patient rather than a
shelter. They give to and receive from me a lot of love.

I’ve also recently (as in a month ago) changed to a new job in a different lab
in my factory, which is a first shift job. I’m hoping that this will allow me
to become a little bit more sociable! I’ve come to appreciate people in the
flesh as well as online, within reasonable limits!

Oh, and my eyes are much, much better since the operation! I still get quite
bad floaters, and I need reading glasses for close work, but apart from that I
actually have 20/20 distance vision for the first time in my life, which is
still pretty thrilling!

There you go, gentle readers, that’s the basic catch-up. I hesitate to call it
a resolution but I will attempt to keep this blog a bit more active.

Happy New Year!

 

Share this:

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • 

Posted in Admin, Nature
Tags: personal

Crimes Against Liberty

 August 30, 2014 • 1 Comment

Last night it came up in a podcast conversation (on the show of Travis Simmons
aka The Big Funny – look him up!) what the real crime of slavery is.

To me there’s no doubt: you can talk about physical strictures like hobbling
(where legs were broken and allowed to heal crooked to prevent runaways)  and
those doubtless affected mind as well as body, but the worst crimes perpetuated
against the enslaved has to be the intellectual hobbling that made them think
of themselves as slaves.

Hobbling broke the legs of slaves so they couldn’t run; the greater crime was
breaking their minds so they didn’t want to.

Why was it greater? Because Lamarck to the contrary, broken legs don’t
perpetuate from generation to generation. Broken minds do. There are young
black people today who believe either explicitly or implicitly that they are
inferior to white people, and there are white people who believe the obverse.
 The former won’t believe in themselves and won’t achieve all they could, and
the latter won’t learn what they could from anyone with a supposedly
inappropriate skin tone.

It was literally illegal to teach slaves to read at one time. Had those laws
been followed perfectly we would never have known the wisdom of Frederick
Douglass. Who knows how many other enslaved people with enslaved minds might
have freed themselves if they had been allowed to think properly, with the
tools of literacy and numeracy?

The same arguments apply to women, to admittedly a lesser degree. (Black women
got a double whammy of course.) They were forbidden from higher education by
statute. What possible reason could there be for that? The only real reason
would seem to be that men didn’t want the competition.

Today there are opportunities for personal education that exceed both in kind
and arguably in quality any educational structures in the past. To fail to
educate yourself is at least arguably a crime against your society, an
abdication of duty tantamount to treason.

If you love freedom, if you care about liberty… Learn. Vote.

The American political system is broken, but at least arguably not beyond
repair.

Share this:

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • 

Posted in Activism, Difference-making, United States

2014 Atheist Alliance of America Conference

 August 19, 2014 • 1 Comment

I attended the 2014 Atheist Alliance of America Conference in Seattle, 
Washington from Thursday 7 August to Sunday 10 August. I found the conference
productive, educational and enjoyable.
AAA Con 2014
Other than simply being a regular attendee I was filling a few special roles; I
was Secular Humanists of the Lowcountry’s Affiliate Council representative, I
was the Secretary to AAA’s Board of Directors, and I was the incoming editor of
Secular Nation magazine.

Secular Nation magazine

Secular Nation magazine


As a lesson learned at this conference, let me say that while they may seem
awkward and vaguely silly at first, Robert’s Rules of Order absolutely *rock*
for keeping a meeting efficiently on point. Several of the Affiliate
representatives had been at prior Council meetings and remarked to me afterward
that they’d never seen one proceed so smoothly.

The remainder of the conference was largely devoted to learning and networking,
apart from an Affiliate Council strategy session. The speakers were all as
amazing as I’d expected them to be. The only small sad disappointment was the
absence of Horus Gilgamesh, who had been sent a death threat and who decided
that it wasn’t worth it to forge ahead, partly for his own safety and to spare
his family worry but also so that the conference would not have to bear extra
security costs and other attendees would not be put in danger. In solidarity 
just about every attendee wore stickers on our ID badges saying “Hello, my name
is Horus Gilgamesh!” – a gesture that he has conveyed was deeply appreciated.

"Hello, my name is Horus Gilgamesh!"

“Hello, my name is Horus Gilgamesh!”


Rebecca Vitsmun was the first main speaker on Friday, and her speech was both
emotionally moving and a great example of using an emotional impetus to achieve
very practical orgainzational ends. She didn’t simply embarrass Wolf Blitzer by
failing to be a theist after a tornado wiped out her town, she set about
working with Foundation Beyond Belief to set up a genuinely useful
infrastructure to allow on both a local and national level for humanists to
respond effectively to natural disasters.

In the first breakout session I chose to attend Mynga Futrell’s presentation on
“Seeking Influence in Public Schools: A Strategy For Atheists” in which she
provided me with a better understanding of how the curricula and textbooks are
determined for public schools. The textbooks are mainly determined by four
states, California, Texas, Florida, and New York, but there is ample
opportunity for affecting curricula at the State and school board level, and
she offered some examples of how she’d gotten small but important changes made,
often by working in coalition with minority religious groups (Jewish and 
Muslim, mostly), and some advice on framing issues in ways most likely to be
seen as positive and nonthreatening to the Christian majority.

Bob Seidensticker, author of the novel Cross Examined and the eponymous blog,
spoke after lunch giving a whirlwind tour of the counter-apologetics he
specializes in. Pretty much all of the arguments he deconstructed are covered
by the characters in the novel, which I recommend. (I fetched my copy from home
and he graciously signed it “Bob Seidensticker, or possibly Horus Gilgamesh!”)
books signed
In the afternoon breakout session I attended the presentation by August
Brunsman, of the Secular Student Alliance, one of the success stories in the
modern freethought movement. August gave us a picture of how rapidly the SSA
has grown, identified the balance between allowing local SSA leaders to tune
the program for their own environs and providing solid, standardized support
methods to them. He told us about additional SSA-sponsored programs like
Secular Safe Space providing a nonthreatening place for students to express
doubt, and told us about the training programs SSA offers faculty and other 
interested non-student adults to enable them. He also spoke of the relative
difficulties SSA has had moving down the educational ladder from colleges to
high schools, with the lesser levels of autonomy available to students at those
levels, and about how SSA is trying to bring in more parental involvement at
those levels to compensate.

August Brunsman & I

August Brunsman & I


The final work session of the day was Affiliate Strategic Planning, in which we
used brainstorming and mind mapping techniques to get some idea of where AAA
would like to go for and with affiliates, as well as clarifying what
representatives of the Affiliate Council saw as their proper relationship to
the Board of Directors. An unofficial post-session developed out of that
meeting for myself and AAA consultant Richard Haynes with valuable insights
into practical aspects of both best-practice bylaw writing and producing a
viable print magazine being offered by affiliate Brian Allen; we decided that 
we’d skip the movie in order to continue discussion and develop ideas.

Friday evening wound up with Comedy Night, which was hilarious (especially Ian
Harris, who I’d frankly never heard of before but who is a complete riot),
followed by an after-party at which I ended up imbibing entirely too much
ethanol.

As a result on Saturday I was not running on all cylinders, but I managed to at
least be present for Steve Hill’s sharing of the intersectionality of being in
racial, religious, and class  inorities, and Amanda Metskas’ explication of the
Secular Coalition for America’s workings. (I also recorded them for later
perusal, as I did all the presentations I attended.)

After lunch Brother Richard Haynes presented on developing online freethinking
communities, in which he made what I thought were some very cogent points,
especially about being willing to tolerate atheist voices that differ from our
own (S.E. Cupp and Bill Maher both being used as examples) and being willing to
forgive and move on when one of our own screws up. (There may be some
self-interest there though, as Brother Richard confessed that he actively
encouraged Richard Dawkins to Tweet more!)

Then there was the presentation I’d been agog for; I am a *major* Steven Pinker
fan! He is an even bigger intellectual hero to me than the aforementioned
Richard Dawkins, even if he’s less popular in the world at large, and he did
not disappoint as he clearly and precisely laid out the reasons why religious
beliefs were plausible and cogent evolutionary survival stratagems or at least
exaptations, and why the
alternate explanations based on religious ideas being factually true did not
hold water at all. His points were pellucid, beautifully organized, and
compelling. In the Q&A afterward he was poised, thoughtful, and interesting in
his elaborations.

Yes, I want to be like Steven Pinker if I ever grow up… and I was first in line
to get my books signed! We had a few minutes to chat and as I told him, his
books are not only intellectually heavy but physically heavy, yet it was well
worth the lug. As he started to sign them he laughed and asked me “Is your name
really Horus Gilgamesh?” So I had to explain… :)

(I did have to skip the Richard Carrier debate, as I desperately need ad more
sleep by this point; I am a third shift worker! Richard’s a friend, so he
accepted my excuses! By the way, if we have him as a speaker for SHL at any
time we get $25 off his normal honorarium.)

Pinker, Goldstein, Murtagh

Steven Pinker, Rebecca Goldstein, Brian Murtagh, and Lucy’s (replica!) skull.


In the evening of course was the Richard Dawkins Award, which this year went to
Rebecca Newberger Goldstein (whose husband is Steven Pinker, so he was kind of
a freebie! When Amy introduced him she rattled off an amazing long list of the
awards he’s received, and Dr. Pinker pointed out that she’d missed one very
important one; he was last year’s recipient of the same award his wafe received
this year!).

She gave an acceptance speech which seemed very much off the cuff, speaking of
her upbringing in an Orthodox Jewish family where it was questioned whether
even her speaking voice should be kept silent – but as casual and informal as
her acceptance was it remained cadenced and interesting throughout. Afterward I
made sure to get up to be first in line to get her books signed as well, and
ended up enjoying a multi-way conversation with her for the better part of an
hour, and she is a *fantastic* conversationalist! When we did finally get
around to geting the books signed, she looked at my name tag and said, “Is your
name really Horus Gilgamesh?”

The wrap-up the following day was a trip to Chateau Ste. Michelle Winery,
Snoqualmie Falls, and Boehm Choclaterie, and it was lovely indeed, socializing
in congenial environs with my fellow freethinkers (and getting extra wine
samples in because the pourer used to live in my home town back in England,
Banbury). I even made some possible arrangements for future Secular Nation
articles, and an exchange program between SN and our sister magazine of the
Atheist Alliance International, Secular World.

At the Ste Michelle Winery

At the Ste Michelle Winery



As I said, productive, educational, and enjoyable!

Share this:

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • 

Posted in Activism, atheism, Difference-making, Education, Secularism

How do we stay outraged?

 August 14, 2014 • 6 Comments

I have a number of friends who seem to find my general level of outrage just
the teensiest bit risible.

I can understand why, in a way. Certainly I get tired of it myself. Sometimes I
think wistfully of just ceasing to give a flying fuck at a rolling doughnut. It
would be restful to be able to just sit there and watch the little fried treat
roll right on past me. If nothing else, I could relax secure in the knowledge
that there will be another along in a minute.

I recently posted a piece about the aftermath of the Elliot Rodgers incident,
more specifically about the pervasive unacknowledged misogyny in American
culture it had brought to light. I had actually written it a few weeks earlier
but I wrote it for a print magazine, and wanted to wait to share it until after
its publication there. I gambled that the outrage over the American media’s
failure to address the plain and obvious cause of the mass killing would still
be around, after the initial shock of the killing itself had faded.

I lost that gamble, of course. It was not the first time I’d overestimated the
attention span of America.
I’m an optimist like that. I keep thinking this one, this incident, will be the
one that gets a sustained response. That we will finally be tipped over into
reacting with sanity, into doing something.
It’s hard to hold on to that kind of optimism, especially as it pertains to
shootings. America seems to have an infinite capacity to absorb gun-related
tragedies.

Columbine High wasn’t enough, Sandy Hook Elementary wasn’t enough, North Panola
High, Sparks Middle, Arapahoe High, Raytown Academy, East English Village
Preparatory, St. Mary Catholic School, Provo High, Reynolds High… weren’t
enough to persuade us as a country to so much as reduce the number of bullets a
shooter can spray schoolchildren with between reloading. Those aren’t even
close to all the shootings just in schools, I only included K-12 schools where
there were multiple fatalities.

Every time one of them happens, I hear the same stupid disingenuous arguments:
if only there had been good people with guns around (because everyone who
watches the movies knows that the good guys always hit the exact target they
aim at while rolling and dodging bullets in the middle of the firefight, while
simultaneously preventing the bad guys from getting a clear shot at anything),
hammers kill people as much as guns do (yet somehow I suspect compromise
legislation restricting guns while allowing unlimited hammers wouldn’t satisfy
the people who make this dishonest comparison), it’s necessary to keep the
government at bay (when the government is the only group that has the gun
enthusiasts overwhelmingly outgunned), any infringement on the holy right to
bear arms is blackest tyranny (even measured like serialized ammunition that
would have no effect whatever other than to help solve gun crimes after the
fact), et cetera et cetera et nauseating cetera.

I’ve written pieces on sensible gun control before, and nothing ever changes
with respect to gun control, so when I wrote about Trayvon Martin, I focused
specifically on the insanity of the so-called Stand Your Ground laws and their
inherent susceptibility to abuse through uneven application. Over the Elliot
Rodgers killing spree, I thought it more potentially helpful (or at least
interesting) to focus on the motive of the shooter, and the pervasive misogyny
that goes far too unremarked in our culture, and that too is fading into the
background.

When I sat down to write this piece, which was going to be about the shooting
of Michael Brown in Ferguson, I thought I might do something similar with a
focus on the particular danger of police being allowed so much leeway to gun
people down, especially young black men. I thought I might suggest ways in
which the police can be made more accountable, such as by requiring that they
be outfitted with continuously running video recorders on their persons and in
their patrol cars – after all, the government keeps telling us that if we’re
doing nothing wrong we shouldn’t fear the Panopticon, so surely that must apply
equally to the police with the special levels of privilege and presumption of
veracity we routinely grant them.

As I began actually thinking it through, though, I realized that the question I
really wanted to ask is the one in the title; how do we stop this from being
just one more tragedy, one more injustice, given its fifteen minutes of fame
and then forgotten, like Oscar Grant of Oakland, or Duane Brown of New York
City, or Aaron Campbell of Portland, or Stephon Watts of Chicago, or Manuel
Loggins of San Clemente, or Timothy Russel of Cleveland, or Kendrec McDade of
Pasadena, or Dante Price of Dayton, or who the hell knows how many others.

All those cases are of unarmed men shot dead by police under circumstances at
least sketchy enough to raise serious questions of why, in a variety of cities
across the entire nation; some of them very likely may have been understandable
mistakes, but when it’s that easy to come up with a list of sketchy shootings
it’s hard to avoid the conclusion that there’s a systemic problem that we ought
to be looking into ways to mitigate.

They were all seen as baffling, enraging travesties in the news coverage of the
time, and it took me only a few minutes of Internet searching to find them, and
at best a few of the names might be vaguely familiar. How do we keep our
national attention on Michael Brown of St. Louis (or Ezell Ford of Los Angeles,
another even more recent case), long enough to DO something?

How do we stay outraged? Can we, even?
I’m feeling a bit less optimistic this time.

Share this:

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • 

Posted in current events, government, Guns, Law, Politics, United States

#YesAllWomen See A Problem #NotAllMen Do

 August 10, 2014 • 2 Comments

(This story first appeared in Secular Nation magazine.)

On the night of 23 May 2014, 22-year-old Elliot Rodger went on a massacre in
Santa Barbara that left six people dead and seven injured.

The question is, why did he do it? If you make a habit of reading news from
other countries and followed the story from there, you’ll have been given the
answer almost as soon as it happened. If you only follow the US news, you’ll
have to have sorted through the facts, including some that you simply won’t
find in almost all of the traditional US news media, or for that matter most of
the online sources that have begun to supplant them.

Elliot Rodger killed and injured those people because he was virulently
misogynistic. He hated all women with a bone-deep seething hatred, especially
but not limited to the women he found most sexually attractive. There are
naturally all kinds of factors in the case, as in any human situation, but
there is absolutely no question that that was his primary motive; it is
staggeringly, stunningly obvious from the facts.

The problem is, the US media almost universally ignored that obvious fact, and
in many cases still are. They went through incredible contortions to try and
find some other explanation, to find some skewed psychology that would allow
the possibility of his motivation being primarily racism (he was in fact a
racist as well, but that was not his primary motivation), or a disease of the
brain, or even (by Fox News, always first to the bottom) repressed
homosexuality. It’s all nonsense; we know why he did it because the killer
himself told us, with heated passion and in great detail, in a variety of
media, exactly why.

Shortly before starting his killing spree Rodger had uploaded a video to
YouTube entitled “Retribution”. In this video Rodger said he was going to prove
himself the ultimate “alpha male” and take revenge on all the “sluts” who had
sexually rejected him:

                “Tomorrow is the day of retribution, the day in which I will
    have my revenge. […] On the day of retribution, I am going to enter the
    hottest sorority house of UCSB [University of California, Santa Barbara],
    and I will slaughter every single spoiled, stuck-up, blonde slut I see
    inside of there. All of those girls that I’ve desired so much. They would
    have all rejected me and looked down upon me as an inferior man if I ever
    made a sexual advance towards them. While they throw themselves at these
    obnoxious brutes. I’ll take great pleasure in slaughtering all of you. You
    will finally see that I am in truth the superior one, the true Alpha Male.”

Prior to that Rodgers mailed a 140-page autobiography/manifesto to various
media outlets, including the New York Times. Here is a sample:

                “I concluded that women are flawed. There is something mentally
    wrong with the way their brains are wired, as if they haven’t evolved from
    animal-like thinking. They are incapable of reason or thinking rationally.
    They are like animals, completely controlled by their primal, depraved
    emotions and impulses. That is why they are attracted to barbaric, wild,
    beast-like men. They are beasts themselves. Beasts should not be able to
    have any rights in a civilized society. If their wickedness is not
    contained, the whole of humanity will be held back from advancement to a
    more civilized state. Women should not have the right to choose who to mate
    with. That choice should be made for them by civilized men of intelligence.
    If women had the freedom to choose which men to mate with, like they do
    today, they would breed with stupid, degenerate men, which would only
    produce stupid, degenerate offspring. This in turn would hinder the
    advancement of humanity. Not only hinder it, but devolve humanity
    completely. Women are like a plague that must be quarantined.”

Prior to *that* he was an active participant on various misogynistic Internet
forums, primarily one called PUAHate. There he said things like this:

    “One day incels will realize their true strength and numbers, and will
    overthrow this oppressive feminist system.”

    “Start envisioning a world where WOMEN FEAR YOU.”

    “Every male should read the posts here so that they can be awakened. There
    are too many delusional males worshipping women who would only spit in
    their faces.”

    A quick primer: MRA stands for Men’s Rights Advocate, a misogynistic
    anti-feminist online community. PUA is Pick-Up Artist, a somewhat
    overlapping group who claim to know many psychological tricks for
    hoodwinking women into having sex with them. Incel means involuntary
    celibate, a man who can’t get women to have sex with him. PUAHate is a
    collection of MRA incels who resent PUAs for supposedly ‘stealing’ the
    women who otherwise would have slept with them. The overall attitude is
    that women are not regarded as individual human beings but as faulty sex
    dispensing devices that put out for the wrong men, i.e. not the incels.

Now, is it so that Rodgers had other issues? Certainly. He was narcissistic,
racist, deeply unrealistic, and may have had a mild form of autistic spectrum
disorder. All that fed into his malignant personality, no doubt; his narcissism
(his autobiography/manifesto is full of bragging about his high IQ), magical
thinking (he felt cheated every time he failed to win a large lottery prize),
and lack of social skills (which may or may not have been Asperger’s syndrome)
were contributing factors to his frustrated rage against women, and his racism
partially directed it (he was obsessed with blond hair, and became particularly
enraged when he saw women he desired dating “nonwhite” males – though partly
Asian himself he identified as white).

Nevertheless the overwhelming cause of his actions, so overwhelming that I’d
argue you would not be missing anything significant by considering it the sole
cause, was his misogyny, and despite the peculiar and infuriating reluctance of
the US media to acknowledge it that is the plain truth.

As that truth has become increasingly unavoidable, the predictable and to an
extent understandable reaction by many men has been summed up in the Twitter
hashtag #NotAllMen. Not all men are like that, not all men hate women, not all
men see women as sex-dispensing objects. That is true, and I doubt that you can
find a single woman who will deny it. The *defensiveness* of that hashtag is
the key to understanding the larger issue beyond the specific tragedy of Elliot
Rodger though, and the reason for that defensiveness is the very reason why the
US media didn’t want to acknowledge misogyny as the ovious cause of that
tragedy.

That defensiveness arises because, as the responding hashtag #YesAllWomen
demonstrates with heartbreaking thoroughness, those attitudes are ingrained
into our culture to an appalling extent. The MRA subculture is an extreme
fringe, Elliot Rodger was an extreme member even there… but those attitudes
aren’t nearly as extreme as we’d like to pretend, and some level of them
pervade just about everywhere, to such an extent we’ve largely blinded
ourselves to their ubiquity. Women are constantly treated as mere sexual
playthings, constantly considered less worthy of attention and respect than
men, constantly made to feel vulnerable in both physical and social ways,
constantly dismissed and belittled and ignored.

I can’t express the extent of the problem here. Go on Twitter and search the
hashtag #YesAllWomen. If you do, then even if you are relatively aware of the
problem the chances are you will be astonished by how many ways that pervasive
set of attitudes is expressed, and by how many of them you have seen again and
again and never made the connection, simply because the problem is so
ubiquitous it fades into background noise.

If you are a man, especially one who considers himself a good man who doesn’t
think that way, resist the temptation to simply block with a reflexive #
NotAllMen. Of course not all of us are like Rodger, or even like the resentful
self-involved MRA subculture he came out of… but his deadly hatred did grow out
of that culture, which does exist, and that culture survives and thrives
because of the general background of outdated attitudes that it concentrates
and intensified. Ignoring it won’t make it go away. Catching violent extremists
like Rodger won’t eliminate it, even disrupting the cesspools of the MRA and
PUA cultures won’t do the whole job. The culture of patriarchy is pervasive,
and it’ll take standing up against stereotypes, not tolerating dismissive and
insulting jokes, being consciously fair, and a trillion other small actions.

Paying attention to a problem is the first step in fixing it. These attitudes
have largely grown out of a cultural heritage dominated by religions that
aggrandize men and diminish women at every level; they are not rational
attitudes that enlightened people should want to tolerate in their culture.

#YesAllWomen share a problem. #NotAllMen are willing to make it their problem
too, but men who are rationalists and humanists should. Let’s do it, #
AllGoodHumans.

Share this:

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • 

Posted in Activism, atheism, current events, Difference-making, Sexuality,
United States

Social Justice Warrior? Sure! I’ll take that.

 July 25, 2014 • 2 Comments

It bemuses me to see people in the atheist community casting the phrase “social
justice warrior” as an epithet. I don’t think it’s all that common for people
to think social justice is a bad thing. I don’t think there are even that many
who think it happens all on its own, without anyone fighting for it.

Seriously, it’s a bad thing to fight for social justice? When did that happen?
Or is it just bad for atheists to do it as part of a community of other
atheists?

I know there are atheists who aren’t concerned with being part of a movement,
or with forming communities with other atheists. I can totally understand that;
it doesn’t match my set of priorities, but mine aren’t everyone’s. “I’m an
atheist, and that’s all there is to it.” It’s a perfectly logical,
self-consistent position; atheism per se is only a statement of belief about
what is, not what ought to be. The people who used to puzzle me are the *
militant* dictionary atheists, insisting that you’re not allowed to care about
anything else and get together in a community of other atheists to do stuff
together about those other things.

I came across a lot of those during the attempt to launch Atheism+, which
wasn’t so much stillborn as it was beaten to death in its receiving blanket. It
puzzled me that people were so violently opposed to the idea of a group of
people who cared about atheism plus other things of a social justice nature
calling themselves Atheism+. Sure, it is a pairing that sort of has a label
already, secular humanism, but that label wasn’t doing all that the proponents
of A+ wanted it to do; it didn’t sufficiently encapsulate the importance of the
non-faith-based motivations of the group for one thing. Since theists can also
be both secular and humanist it’s a very soft label, secular humanism, and
that’s okay for some purposes but not for others. A+ was just a branding for
the people who wanted to promote social justice and make their atheism clear as
well.

A certain segment of atheists got downright angry, waving their dictionaries
and shouting angrily that the pairing would somehow “dilute the meaning of
atheism” by giving people the idea that caring about social issues was part of
atheism. It seemed to me a ridiculous argument then and it still does. It’s not
that hard to figure out that “atheism plus” means there’s something besides
atheism in there, and frankly with the amount of time we spend explaining that
atheism doesn’t involve worshipping Satan or wild debauched parties catered by
raiding the local daycare center for meat, persuading people that we aren’t
about being *nice* either is and was the least of my worries.

It’s become clearer over the years since that virtually no one actually was
that passionately concerned about that horrible possibility of the word atheism
being diluted. A very few might have genuinely thought there was a possibility
of confusion, but those weren’t the angry ones. Rather, it was mostly about a
very vocal segment who were opposed to one very specific type of social
justice, feminism. Almost every one of those militant dictionary atheists later
turned out to hold some sexist attitudes. A few more were simply caught up in
the drama of it all and some simply subsumed the actual issues into personality
clashes, but the overlap between the most vicious opponents of A+ and the
membership of misogynist sites made for a pretty strong correlation, and in the
penumbra of that were people who aren’t actually misogynist per se but simply
don’t think that sexual equality issues are very important at all. That’s how I
see it, anyway; I’m hard pressed to think of any feminist activists who were
strongly opposed to A+.

That same crowd seem to be the ones who regard the phrase “social justice
warrior” as an insult, and again the particular form of social justice that
raises their hackles is feminism; they tend to be out and out misogynists like
TJ “The Amazing Atheist” Kincaid, or people who consider sexism (at least in
the Western world) as a trivial and unimportant problem that doesn’t need much
if any addressing, one saddening example being Richard “Dear Muslima” Dawkins.

Maybe there are some who think, as many a religion teaches, that the moral arc
of the universe automatically bends toward justice without any effort required
on its behalf, that the zeitgeist just naturally moves that way because there’s
a destiny that compels it to, but even then it would be hard to argue that
actively trying to make things better is going to slow that process down, or
that speeding it up is a bad thing. Even the fatalist who thinks all such
efforts are futile has no reason to become angry or oppose the effort.

It isn’t a logical or rational thing to rail against people who are trying to
make the world better. If you oppose the “social justice warriors” in that
attempt, the only reasons I can think of to do so (feel free to suggest others)
are that you are not being logical and rational, or that you think the
methodology is so wrong as to be counterproductive to that end, or that you
don’t actually agree on what constitutes a better world. I suspect that latter
category is a well-populated one; it certainly seems that most of the people
who have used the phrase “social justice warrior” derogatively are pretty
damned comfortable with the status quo, or are profiting mightily by sucking up
to those who are.

As for me, I am pretty damned comfortable in the world too. Other than not
being Christian and not being born wealthy, I have all the characteristics that
make getting by in my world easy. I’m not a racial minority, I’m not gay or
trans, I’m not a woman, I’m not disabled. I’m a citizen, I speak English as a
first language, I’m decently educated, I’m gainfully employed, and of course
I’m smart and funny and devilishly handsome. Go me!

I could just kick back and enjoy all that, but I’d rather use my privileged
position to help level the playing field for others.

Social Justice Warrior? Sure! I’ll take that.

Share this:

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • 

Posted in Uncategorized

Press Release

 July 24, 2014 • Comments Off on Press Release

Convention

  

Press release – more info at http://www.aaaseattle2014.com

The Atheist Alliance of America will be holding their annual conference on
August 7-10 in Seattle, Washington this year, at the Doubletree Hotel Seattle
Airport, in conjunction with hosting local affiliate Seattle Atheists. The
theme will be Humanism in Action. Apart from a little on the spot action (we
will be holding a blood drive Saturday!) attendees will hear from a variety of
activists.

Educating people is one form of action, of course, and we will have many
speakers to that. Headlining that arena Dr. Rebecca Goldstein, author of works
like The Mind-Body Problem, Betraying Spinoza, and Plato at the Googleplex, as
well as works of fiction such as Properties of Light and 36 Arguments For God,
will be accepting the Richard Dawkins Award at the Conference. Also speaking
will be her husband and last year’s Dawkins Award winner, Dr. Steven Pinker,
famed experimental psychologist and author of hit scientific tomes like The
Language Instinct, How The Mind Works, The Blank Slate, and The Stuff Of
Thought, and the historical meta-analysis of violence The Better Angels Of Our
Nature.

Mynga Futrell has direct knowledge of education and fighting for education
issues at every level from elementary school through university, from local to
worldwide scales. August Brunsman will share some of the secrets of the success
of the Secular Student Alliance. Local activist and national star Sam Mulvey,
executive producer of Ask an Atheist, will give insight into organizing
successful outreach. Former minister, “Brother Richard” Haynes, President of
Atheist Nexus and blogger at Brother Richard’s Life Without Faith, will talk
about building nontheist communities and coming out of the atheist closet. His
fellow Patheos blogger Bob Seldensticker of Cross Examined will speak on
counter-apologetics, offering intellectual critiques of religious arguments.
Dr. Richard Carrier, ascendant star of academic analysis of the progress of
science in ancient Greece and Rome and author of the recent controversial
argument for mythicism On the Historicity of Jesus will offer insights along
those lines too!

Ben Blanchard will talk about bringing active humanist help around the world
with the Pathfinders Project and Humanist Service Corps. Steve Hill will be
spreading his hard-won knowledge of how to have a voice in American politics.
Marsha Botzer will share some of her experience as one of the most active
organizers for LGBTQ issues in the world. Amanda K. Metskas and Diana Castillo
will speak of organizing with the Secular Coalition of America to fight secular
issues in law. Rebecca Vitsmun will give her ground level view of humanist
action without relying on invisible intangible friends (sorry, Wolf Blitzer!)

With all that convention attendees will need some comic relief, and it will be
provided to them. Horus Gilgamesh, author of the very successful and funny
Awkward Moments (not found in your average) Children’s Bible, volume 1, will be
speaking and introducing volume 2. The convention will also feature not one but
two highly regarded atheist stand-up comedy acts, Ian Simmons and Travis “The
Big Funny” Simmons, to bring the laughs.

The conference will very much be a family friendly event, with fun and exciting
activities for kids as well as speakers offering information and views on those
issues specific to secular (and mixed) families. Atheist Alliance of America is
a family itself, a democratic atheist organization of democratic atheist
organizations, and workshops will held to help member societies thrive and
expand.

We hope to see you in Seattle!

Doubletree Hotel Seattle Airport, 18740 International Blvd, Seattle, WA 98188

Share this:

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • 

Posted in Activism, atheism

<< Previous Entries

    January 2016
M  T  W  T  F  S  S
<< Aug       
            1  2  3
4  5  6  7  8  9  10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30 31

The Hunger Site – because it’s free and you should

http://thehungersite.com

Subscribe to Blog via Email

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of
new posts by email.

[Email Address       ]

[Subscribe]

Or by RSS:

  • RSS - Posts
  • RSS - Comments

Follow @theodd1btm

Baby Needs Shoes

Recent Comments

  • perangkap nyamuk on Religious Exhortations to War in Presidential Briefings
  • Silvia on 1000HE Detail: Touchpad Cable
  • latex socks on Religious Exhortations to War in Presidential Briefings
  • Cheri on Religious Exhortations to War in Presidential Briefings
  • Lottie on Immortals Shouldn’t Die

Categories

Categories[Select Category        ]
[65c6a68f]
 

Powered by WordPress. Theme: ChaoticSoul (v1.4) by Bryan Veloso.

Send to Email Address Your Name [                    ] Your Email Address 
loading [Send Email] Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
