Rail Bender

Life is not meant to be lived in a straight line. Bend the rail.

Wednesday, November 4, 2015

SILAS - My Home Automation

Now that my home automation is finally getting to the point where it feels like
an integral part of my house, I decided to take some time to review the
hardware components and of course, the software.  While there are both hardware
and software components to my home automation, I always refer to it in the
general sense as SILAS - Simple Intranet/Internet Linked Automation System.  (I
should disclose that I wrote my own software integration to my home automation
components, but we'll cover that in a bit.)

First of all, after my initial research I realized I needed a robust and high
quality control unit.  I chose the ISY994i from Universal Devices for it's
flexibility, ease of use, and more importantly, their various network
programming interfaces (again, more on that later.)  At the time I purchased
this unit, it was the only controller offering so many features.  I felt I got
more bang for my buck, and I knew it would fit the bill when it came time to
write my software.  (Insteon is now offering a new Hub, which looks very
promising as well.  However, in my opinion their programmer interface is not
nearly as concise as the ISY994i.)

Next, for my outlets and switches I chose Insteon products because they offer
both powerline and RF communication between components.  Insteon refers to this
as "dual-band", which means that a signal is sent via the electrical wiring
within your house, and another signal is sent via radio frequency.  If the
signal isn't consumed by the particular device through the wiring, it has
another chance to consume the signal via RF.  Plus, most of their components
not only receive controller signals, but also possess the ability to
re-transmit these signals to other potential components.  Obviously this means
that as you buy more components, you build a bigger automation network.  This
is very convenient for any houses larger than say, 1,600 square feet.

Insteon also offers an extremely wide array of components like in-wall outlets,
switches, sprinkler controllers, thermostats, garage door kits... you name it.
 My house is littered with various Insteon components and anytime I find a
frequently used lamp or light that would be better served by automating it,
it's an easy conversion.  For example, I never really felt like I had complete
control over my sprinkler system.  Not to mention the Weathermatic controller
had a knack for blowing the tiny little 1 Amp fuses every couple of months.
 So, I removed the old flaky sprinkler controller and installed a couple of
Insteon low voltage sprinkler controllers.  After a quick bit of wiring and
linking to the ISY994i, I was all set with complete control and status of each
station in my sprinkler system.

Now let's go back to the ISY994i in order to discuss my software.  Years ago,
my software ran as an executable in Windows 7 and utilized a direct network
connection to the ISY994i controller.  This worked very well for a while, but
it generally only functioned when used within my home network (we techie people
call that your 'intranet').  Outside my home network (or what techie people
call the 'internet'), my connection reliability to my home was spotty at best
and nonexistent at worst.  Thus, as the Windows operating system changed, and
computer hardware adopted touchscreens, AND Windows Phone offered an easy port
of my code, AND the Universal Devices folks offered a new network programming
interface, AND internet connections got faster, (and you get the idea...) I
decided a new approach was long overdue.

Without going into all the gory technical and programming details, I recently
finalized the latest iteration of my SILAS software.  The results of which have
been outstanding, at least for me and my family's uses.  I have given the
clunky, overly complicated web interface of the ISY994i an easy to manipulate
user interface that fits very well with the smallest of Windows tablets.  Not
to mention it serves as a satisfying balance between providing the current
state of my home and the convenience of modern touchscreen user interfaces.
 SILAS can display active devices; the current weather at a glance (and a more
descriptive forecast if you wish); lists of rooms or scenes; and of course,
Cortana integration for those that actually like issuing orders to their homes.

Finally, I'd like to add that having all of this automation without some kind
of fixed, interactive terminals around your house forces everyone, even
visitors, into your particular technological ecosystem.  It is this reason that
I recommend at least one easily located, wall-mounted terminal/interface to
your home automation.  The good news for me is that finding relatively cheap
Windows tablets has been fairly easy since Dell and HP have been practically
giving them away for the past year-and-a-half.  These small tablets - 8" to be
exact - make the perfect interface for high traffic areas like our kitchen and
our loft.  Here's a quick snapshot of SILAS in our kitchen (please note that I
have plans to build a custom frame to give the tablet a proper finish to the
wall):

[IMAG00053]

Also, I have found that Microsoft offers extremely cheap unlocked Windows
phones (Lumia 635) on Amazon or the Microsoft Store.  As a matter of fact,
these phones are so cheap that they are a far more economical choice than
Insteon's 4 or 6 button remotes!  All you have to do is set them to airplane
mode and then turn on the WiFi.  And just like that, you have yourself a crisp,
backlit LCD interface.  Not to mention they look exceedingly dapper running
SILAS (if I do say so myself):

[IMAG00055]

So there we have it.  I hope this helps someone else who might be considering
entering the world of home automation.  There are so many products coming to
the market now that it is extremely difficult to find the right fit for what
you envision for your home.  I hope that in reviewing my home automation
solution, it might help give you a bit of direction and clarification as you
begin your own adventure toward a fully automated home.
Posted by Larry Mathys at 9:26 PM 0 comments ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to Facebook
Labels: Family, Home Automation, Personal

Monday, October 26, 2015

The Claim and the Evidence

Lately, I have noticed that some people have either never been taught the
difference, or they have simply forgotten their definitions.  Therefore, I
decided to review some basic concepts behind critical thought and skepticism.

First, let's review what usually activates the critical mind - the claim.  In
this context, a claim is a statement of fact, or an assertion.  These can be
things like:

    There is a basilisk living in my chimney. 

    Samsung phones sell better than iPhones. 

    The Earth's orbit is so perfect that if it moved 100 miles in either
    direction, we would either freeze or burn.

Some claims are so grandiose that it's difficult to comprehend.  Others seem
wrong, but only if taken from your perspective.  And of course, some claims are
so outlandish that it is just too wild to take seriously.  For example, take my
first claim.  I'm quite sure that as a reader, it would take me actually
producing said basilisk before you would ever consider my claim.  As a matter
of fact, I think you would assume I had lost my mind (and rightly so.)  If I
did produce a basilisk, however, remember not to look that sucker in the eye...

Now take the second.  In the United States, many people would probably think
that claim about Samsung was false.  That is, until they're shown the actual
sales figures where in fact, Samsung outsells everyone when it comes to
smartphones.

The third claim might seem plausible to those who know that the Earth is a very
long way away from the Sun; and that our planet orbits in the "Goldilocks" or
habitable zone of the Sun; and that 100 miles is a really long way, too.  But
this claim is not just wildly incorrect, it's downright silly.  The Earth's
orbit varies throughout the year by approximately 5 million miles, so 100 miles
is just a drop in the orbital bucket.  But the unwitting human can easily
comprehend 100 miles, and since it sounds really far, then it's easy for some
to believe.

Now that we've covered the claim, let's review the evidence.  This is generally
easy for most people to understand - it's anything that can be used to prove or
disprove something.  And yes, contrary to popular opinion, even statistics are
a completely valid means of providing proof of a claim.

Why is all of this important?

It seems that many people have forgotten that the claim cannot also be used as
evidence.  For example, I cannot use the Harry Potter series as evidence for my
claim that I have a basilisk in my chimney.  The Harry Potter series does
contain some nonfictional castles and cities in the UK, and it also mentions
that basilisks exist, but that doesn't mean that the series can be used as a
valid source of my claim.

The exact same thing can be said for the Bible.  Try to remember that a book
which makes a claim cannot be used to provide evidence that the original claim
is true.  Far too many people use this type of circular reasoning to argue a
Biblical point of view without realizing the fallacy.

What you choose to believe is your own business.  But please... please do the
rest of us a favor and realize that your book, read independent of personal
bias, is nothing more than a long list of unsubstantiated, supernatural claims.
Posted by Larry Mathys at 8:17 PM 0 comments ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to Facebook
Labels: Bible, Personal, Religion

Sunday, August 23, 2015

Prosperity, Politics, and Schadenfreude Gold

Hopefully all of you have been keeping up with the current fiasco that is the
modern religious right.  As for me, I've been eagerly waking up every morning
just to see who's going to be next!  What must it be like for those people that
have been lifting these delinquents into prominence within the religious
community?  I wonder how hard they cringe when they see, "Breaking now..."
scrolling by on their television screens?

I can tell you what it's like for the rest of us - it is outright, no holds
barred, unadulterated joy!

Since people tend to have a very short memory these days, I feel it's my
responsibility to start out by saying that this kind of thing really isn't all
that uncommon.  There's Ted Haggard, John Paulk, Larry Craig, David Vitter,
Henry Hyde, Mark Foley, Bob Livingston, George Rekers, Jimmy Swaggart, Jim
Bakker, and Bishop Eddie Long; just to name a few.

But since we had so much of it this week, I'm going to do something I normally
don't do - I'm going to cover a some of the stories revealed over the last few
days so in twenty or thirty years I can look back on these stories and have a
good chuckle when I'm an old geezer.

First, I give you Donald Trump.  Here's a guy whose companies have filed for
bankruptcy four times, and thus far is the front-runner for the Republican
nomination.  The man sounds like an eight year-old when interviewed or
participating in political debates.  Admittedly, it is quite possible the
reason he sounds like an eight year-old is that we are witnessing the extent of
his vocabulary.  Yet he still remains the front-runner.  He makes morally
asinine and fiscally impossible claims on very complex issues like immigration,
the budget, gun control, and civil rights.  Yet he still remains the
front-runner.

As sad as it is, our once grand nation really has become, "Idiocracy".

Want more proof?  I give you John Oliver's Televangelists piece on his HBO
show, "Last Week Tonight".  If you have twenty minutes to spare, I beg you to
watch it.  It's worth every second!

You see, these pastors charismatically preach something called, "The Prosperity
Gospel" where wealth is a sign of God's favor and blessings.  This idea works
especially well for them, because all of this prosperity begins with "seed
faith", where honest and hard working people are convinced to donate money so
that one day they will get to "harvest" the bounty from that seed.  The people
in these congregations are even told to charge $1,000 dollars on their credit
card in order for God to wipe out their credit card debt...

I realize that it's easy for us to sit back and laugh at the sheer volume of
people that these pastors and other religious leaders are able to bilk for
millions and millions of dollars, but when we take into account that none of
these people or organizations pay any taxes whatsoever, how are we all not
enraged by what they're doing?  Instead of insisting the IRS pursue
prosecutions for fraud, we shake an accusatory finger at the ones doing the
bilking.  And it's not the fault of the IRS either; that agency is forced to
ignore most of these religious racketeers out of fear of more budget cuts from
their religious cronies in the United States Congress.  It's a vicious cycle of
corruption created and maintained by the very people that want to force even
MORE of their religion into our society.

And then... there's Josh Duggar.  This guy...  The hits just keep coming and
coming.  (Cue rimshot!)

I am not at all surprised that his name showed up TWICE in the Ashley Madison
account hack.  To me, this was the very definition of a no-brainer.  What I
found the most offensive was his silly statement released after he had been
caught.  Sure he's a hypocrite, and sure he admitted that he had multiple
affairs.  BUT WHO CARES?!?!?  What bugs me is that he did exactly what other
religious people have done and blame it on something outside, something
intangible.  Like, you know, pornography.

That is exactly like blaming violence on video games!  Seriously, millions upon
millions of people view some form of pornography every hour of every day.  Yet
the number of divorces in the United States really hasn't changed over the past
15 to 20 years (as a matter of fact, I believe the divorce rate has gone down a
bit.)  Blaming pornography is a distraction, a diversion.  He's doing what any
good religious leader would do - find a scapegoat or claim you were deceived by
Satan himself.

What a perfect out these guys have.

Then his poor wife, Anna.  She's so brainwashed by her religion that she
apparently claims that it was partly her fault that her husband was so horny
and lacked so little self-control.  And this is what religion does to women.
 It teaches most of them that they are nothing more than property for men -
toys for men to satiate their uncontrollable appetite for sex.  For even in the
face of scandal caused solely by the transgressions of her husband, she's
taught to think that she's partly to blame.  How sad is it that only religion
is allowed to do that to another human being?

And finally, the annual bellyaching that the rest of us must endure from those
that are the direct cause behind everything I've discussed in this post.  Every
single year when the kids are set to go back to school, we get to hear all the
whining and whimpering about school prayer from the religious right.  You guys
really need a new playbook...

Okay, first of all, which god would you like them to pray to?  My preference
would be Thor, because does anyone ever see Ice Giants walking around?  I
didn't think so.  Thank you, Thor.

Second, how popular would a set of kids yelling, "Allahu Akbar!" be during this
proposed school prayer?  If we allow Christians to pray at schools, then we
must allow all the religious to pray as they see fit.  And that scenario would
be the one where I know I'd be standing nearby with a big box of popcorn.

I mean, good grief Christians!  As if forcing every kid to go through the
motion of bowing their heads will actually make them pray.

Wait a second...  I have a thought.  If you honestly believe that most of those
kids are actually praying, even in church, then I'd like you to send me your
email address so that we can get your "Prosperity Gospel" account started!
Posted by Larry Mathys at 12:41 PM 0 comments ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to Facebook
Labels: Current Events, Intolerance, Local News, Politics

Friday, August 14, 2015

One Plate Less

Over the past few days I have begun one of the hardest moments of my life.  Now
I realize that many people have already experienced this, and may not
necessarily think this is that difficult a hurdle.

Well...  Deal with it, because it is for me.  I am going to miss grabbing four
plates for dinner.  I'm going to miss seeing that beautiful face sitting next
to me at the table and hearing all the drama and happiness she experienced
throughout her day.  I'm going to miss looking over her head while we watch
movies.

You see, I made it point to be as involved in my kid's lives as I could.
 Perhaps that's why this is so difficult.  Since Rachel and Zack were born, my
life has been filled with those two.  Our homes in Arkansas, Oklahoma, Arizona
and Texas.  Our trips to Alaska, Wyoming, California, Colorado, and of course,
to Disney.  These two have been our little traveling troopers - with nothing
but eagerness and excitement to join in.

But now the time has come where our troop will be down by one.  It's that damn
empty seat again.

And I realize that this is selfish and childish of me, but the closer I get to
leaving our baby girl, the more I feel the weight of the emptiness of her chair
at our dinner table and the emptiness of her seat in our car.

While parents are raising their children, we all have this understanding that
one day these wonderful people will leave our homes to break off on their own. 
But that understanding is buried under years of, "Daddy, can you help?" or,
"Daddy, come see!" or time after time of your child just being... a child.  The
thought is like a spot on your carpet you choose to ignore.  You know it's
there, you see it every day, but at the time it seems better to simply wave
your hand and deal with it when you have more time.

That's the problem, though.  For me that time passed far, far too quickly.

It came before I was ready.  It came before I had the courage to deal with it.
 And it came before I had the strength say goodbye.

[DSC_0082]


We love you and will miss you deeply, Rachel.  Have fun, work hard, and we
can't wait to see what you accomplish over the next four years...
Posted by Larry Mathys at 9:08 AM 0 comments ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to Facebook
Labels: Family, Personal

Sunday, August 2, 2015

The Lost That Claim To Be Saved

    "For a person that's been saved, he sure seems lost."

That quote came from my brother in just casual conversation, and it made such
an impression on me that I absolutely had to write about it. I wish that I
could deliver so concise and so powerful a message as he did in just ten words.

Well done, sir!

First, I'll do what I do best and write about my own experiences living life,
raising kids, and growing older. I'll begin by saying that I unconditionally
love my wife. I'll even go so far as saying that I worship the ground that
woman strolls upon. She's the most beautiful and intelligent person I know, and
to this day I still cannot even fathom how I convinced her to marry me. (I
think it was the alcohol...) I absolutely adore my kids. They're both
brilliant, hilarious, kind, and compassionate. I wake up in the morning eager
to see their groggy faces and tattered hair. And of course, as my work day
wears on I find myself anxious to see them when I get home.

My family has always been my inspiration.

But the thing is, I live my life knowing that each breath I take could very
well be my last. And in knowing that, I will make every effort to make even my
very last moment worth living. I know that I will never, ever have enough time
with these wonderful people, even if I live to a ripe old age. It will never be
enough. Ever. I know I'm fortunate to be surrounded by such interesting and
entertaining human beings, which is why I will always cherish every single
moment with them.

Compare that with what you hear from people that wrap themselves in a blanket
of religion. You know the type. The people whose actions and prejudices give us
the expression, "holier than thou." These individuals don't think they're
living life unless they're singing songs of their own self-loathing. They use
words like, "worthless" and, "emptiness" and, "undeserving." They go on and on
about their past; how wretched they once were and how they pray ever so hard
now for forgiveness.

Now, keeping all of that in mind, let's go back to what my brother said. Does
that last paragraph sound like a healthy outlook on life for someone who has
supposedly been dipped in the waters of salvation? Does that sound like someone
that's been "delivered" from all the sin and debauchery that's supposedly
rampant in our society?

Yet that type of thinking is commonplace in religious circles. They are never
good enough. They are never worthy enough. They are never faithful enough. And
according to their pastors, their religious leaders, and the people they
surround themselves with, they are simply not allowed to be happy with
themselves and who they've become even after being saved by blood of Jesus
Christ.

I know this sounds like I'm building up my own straw man, but I honestly wish I
was. I read this type of stuff anywhere from Facebook posts to Christmas cards.
You really don't have to search very far to find it. It's just about
everywhere, as sad as that is.

And yet I pity these individuals. I pity them to the point where I wish I could
convince them to go speak with a therapist. I sincerely worry about many of
them, since much of what they say and write reminds me of someone who's
suicidal.

But my hope is that anyone that reads this will take a moment and look back on
their lives not as a constant downward slide of mistakes and depravity, but
instead as a tapestry of learning and experience. Sure, we all fail, we all
stumble here and there, and we all wish we had said or done something nicer.
But then again, we also succeed, we all achieve here and there, and we all feel
good when we help another person in need. All of these experiences - including
those that give us pride and those that make us feel terrible - are what make
us who we are.

So the person you see in the mirror is not one or the other - that person is
both the achiever and the failure. Focusing on your mistakes over your
successes doesn't make you a better person, it just makes you vulnerable to
someone who's ready to sell you a cure for something you never even had in the
first place.
Posted by Larry Mathys at 8:29 AM 0 comments ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to Facebook
Labels: Christianese, Health, Personal

Sunday, June 28, 2015

The Good Book

I had a thought this morning as I browsed my Sunday social media.  I may have
discovered why it is that the religious people around me still believe a
particular idea even though anyone can see it's not at all accurate.

I think that what I see happening around me is the result of children's Bibles.

No.  Seriously.

Bear with me on this...

If you grew up in the South, as I did in Arkansas, you were more than likely
given a sugarcoated, tranquil, butterflies and rainbows, Super Friends version
of the Bible.  I know I had at least three.  Those bibles had all the great
heroes, all the great battles, all the great stories about Moses, Jacob, Noah,
Jonah, David, Solomon, and Jesus... But what they didn't have were all the
icky, nasty, savage, misogynistic, bloodthirsty and sacrificial details - save
for the nails in Jesus, of course.

Those things read a lot like comic books, to be honest.  Each story was
depicted with a lovely image of a ripped, zero body fat character surrounded by
flowers, butterflies, well-groomed white lambs, people cheering, people playing
trumpets, and topped off with a heavy smattering of light rays slicing through
clouds in the distance.  Save for the single, dark and solemn image of a dying
Jesus, of course.

I mean, they had to show the hole-in-the-hands Jesus thing to the kids.  I'll
give them that.  Because let's be honest, that's the whole point of the
Christian gambit...

But anyway, back to those Sesame Street Bibles.  WOW!  Those versions of the
Bible were absolutely great!  A kid can really eat that stuff up, right?
 Universal good against universal evil...  Chariots, swords, lions, snakes,
epic battles, evil kings, righteous heroes, and a bad ass pacifist dude that
walks on water and rises from the grave.

Am I right?!?!?

But what happened to these kids 20 to 40 years ago when they became adults?
 One would hope that they would take the time to study, analyze, and discover
how the Bible truly reads.  One would think that they would yearn to get to
know the true nature of the people that wrote the Bible.  But judging by what I
read, I don't think that is what happened at all.  I think people my age (and a
bit older) still cling to the children's version of that book.  They won't
acknowledge when their Bible is wrong.  They continue to put forth messages
supposedly attributed to the Bible, but are demonstrably false.  They will not
accept that their view of the Bible has been manipulated by the church under
pressure from our modern societal norms.

The barrage of messages I see today scrolling across my Facebook and Twitter
feeds regarding "Biblical marriage" is the most recent example.

Many of you that already know me will understand when I say that I blame
Evangelical Pastors.  Given what I used to hear on Sunday morning from just
about every Pastor in the area, those guys are not only aware that this current
generation of religious people cling to the children's version, they're
counting on it.

My point is this.  I have read over and over again how many religious people
are doing us all a favor by just, "... agreeing to disagree" and, "... still
loving all of you, even though I do not recognize 'gay marriage'".  (The extra
quotes are theirs, not mine.)  But who are all of you kidding besides
yourselves?  It really is disappointing to me that it doesn't matter how many
verses I give to you to refute your argument, you still refuse to accept
nothing more than the children's version of your religious text.

Why?

*          *          *          *          *

And one last thing.  I want to note what a wonderful week this was for me.  In
light of the two SCOTUS rulings on the Affordable Heathcare Act and same sex
marriage, I am starting to feel just a bit more hope than I've felt in a very,
very long time.  I have never been so moved by so many people as I was on
Friday.

Remember everyone, we are more alike than we are different.
Posted by Larry Mathys at 12:43 PM 0 comments ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to Facebook
Labels: Bible, Current Events, LGBT, Religion

Sunday, June 21, 2015

The Consequence of Presumption

There appears to be a common misconception among many religious people
regarding families like mine that choose to raise their children without
religion.  It's a phenomenon I've noticed over the past few years of raising a
teenage daughter and preteen son.  The thought process of the religious person
generally goes something like this:

    They never take their kids to church.

    Their kids are missing out on everything that God has to offer.  I bet they
    don't even talk to their kids about the Bible or about God. 

    I worry that they don't tell their kids everything about God.  They must
    feel so empty.

    I hate it that their kids don't even understand the damage their parents
    are doing to them and their immortal souls. 

    I wonder if their kids even know anything about the power and forgiveness
    of Jesus?

Admittedly, this is an amalgam of just some of the sentiments my wife and I get
from time to time, but hopefully you get the idea.

Now, I'm sure you can imagine how this can create a very stressful and tense
situation for freethinking parents.  The funny thing about all of these
sentiments is that none of them are true.  Not even the first one.  We did take
our daughter to church, but not our son.  (He never wanted to go.)  We
encourage our kids to read the Bible; the same encouragement we offer if they
are interested in reading Homer or Aesop or the Epic of Gilgamesh.  We would
never hide a book from them.  Because honestly, what good would that do?  I've
always maintained that the best way to be informed on a topic is to research it
yourself.  In fact, it is my opinion that the best way to make someone question
their religion is to get them to sit down and scrutinize their particular
religious text.  And by scrutinize, I mean read it for what it is.  Read it
from cover to cover, without a devotional, and without a study guide.  You
don't need someone telling you what it means.  Read what is actually written in
that book.

And just so I'm clear, my family and I talk about religion frequently.  Whether
it is an impromptu conversation as we drive to their activities, or a more
in-depth conversation over dinner, we discuss whatever questions they may have
about Christianity and how it relates to current events.  We even talk about
the idea of the modern-day Christian heaven and hell!

The one thing that's very likely different in our house than a religious family
is that we do not immediately assume that the Bible is correct.  Religious
people tend to ignore that about themselves.  We try to teach our kids that
it's okay to be skeptical and ask questions.  In doing so, we have found that
this allows free discussion over any number of topics, be it Moses, or Lot (and
his daughters), or Noah, or Paul, or Jesus.  We allow our kids to ask questions
about the things they hear from their religious friends, and offer them
guidance on how to find a logical answer.

We do not, however, tell our kids what to think or what to believe.  We do not
hide things from them - especially stories that are found in the Bible.  I
mean, we live in Texas... How could we?  Our main concern is that we give them
the opportunity to contribute to the conversation, and never, ever, make them
feel inferior to the two adults sitting at the table with them.  If either one
of them thinks a story is too fantastic to be believed, then we allow them to
tell us why.  If they think a particular idea is plausible, then we allow them
the time to explain it to us.

We believe the Bible is no different than any other book that was written in
antiquity.  If you can get through some of the nonsense, it is fascinating to
see how human beings rationalized the world around them.  Plus, as parents that
value education, we both fully understand that the Bible is a resource for
recognizing other themes and ideas found throughout literature.  Knowing the
history of a given theme, or recognizing the symbolism of a particular story,
is invaluable when you're a student.  Why would we ever put our kids at a
disadvantage?  And besides, we want both of our kids educated.  How could we
deny them the opportunity to study any book from the Iron Age and Bronze Age?
 Please try to give us more credit than that.

We do not, however, believe that the Bible holds some kind of mystical or
celestial message.  It is not magical.  It does not contain any message or any
revelation that would be beyond the current technology of the time in which it
was written.  Sure, there are a few progressive sentiments scattered here and
there, but for the most part it has a twisted and narcissistic deity at its
center.  It is cruel.  It is bloody.  It is wildly misogynistic.

And my kids are free read the Bible for themselves and discover these things
without me or my wife's intervention.

*          *          *

One other topic I would quickly like to cover is something that I'm sure many
of you will recognize almost immediately.  It's something I refer to as the
standard Christian smug affirmation:

    I've been praying for you and your family.  I have been praying that God
    will keep blessing your family with love and good health.  I pray every day
    that you will guys will always stay away from all the temptations and sins
    of the world.

As if your prayers are the reason my family is as close as we are.  See, my
wife and I had nothing at all to do with the successes and failures of our two
children.  No... no.  That was God and your prayers.

I mean, my wife and I are atheists, but thanks...  I guess...

Now imagine for a moment, if my wife and I were as brash and presumptuous as
this.  Imagine if we were to approach the outspoken religious people around us
and say or write something equivalent to that:

    We hold out hope that some day you will realize that it's all a lie.

Or:

    We understand that it's not our child, but we have to get it off our chests
    that we wish that you would educate your son/daughter rather than fill him/
    her with senseless guilt and insecurity.

Not only do I think that's a horribly rude thing to say to someone, but boy
would we be immediately labeled as, "angry atheists."  Justifiably so.

And yet, my wife and I get the Christian equivalent of these sentiments from
some of the religious people around us.  Think about that for a minute.  These
are the type of people we are expected to just put up with simply because they
currently have the privilege of being the majority in this country.  We are
expected to suffer through their nonsense because, sadly, they are so
egotistical that they think their worldview is the right one.

It must be nice to be so presumptuous.

My point is simple.  The next time you think you're being a good Christian and
feel like you just have to say something or you're going to burst... DON'T.
 Just keep that kind of thinking to yourselves.  Because believe me, you're not
being a good Christian.  You're just being a pretentious schmuck.
Posted by Larry Mathys at 8:24 PM 0 comments ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to Facebook
Labels: Atheism, Bible, Bullying, Family
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)

About Me

My Photo

Larry Mathys
    If you have time and want to know why I made the choice to be vocal, this
    blog entry should help.

View my complete profile
●

RailBender Pages

  • Rail Bender Home
  • RYBS - Read Your Bible Series
  • Bullying

●

Popular Posts

  • [real_de]
    "The Real Deal" in Saline County, AR, Deals in Religion
    This Thanksgiving weekend, my brother and sister-in-law discovered
    something interesting under my 14 year-old nephew's bed.  I know what...
  • The Prejudiced Future of Lifestyle Rationing
    Imagine you're sitting in your doctor's office, waiting on what could be
    the worst day of your life.  I'm not talking about find...
  • He is Risen!
    My little contribution to the holiday weekend... My photoshop skills suck,
    but this is good enough I think.  Enjoy!
  • [sad_sto]
    Bullying and Harassment at a Christian School
    This morning I became aware of yet another story about a child being
    bullied at her school.  The reddit user, heiressapparent , wrote an ess...
  • [contrad]
    Visual Compilation of Contradictions
    There's not much to this post beyond showing you how wonderful the
    Information Age is: The BibViz Project website  offers a visual...

●

Blog Archive

  • ▼  2015 (8)
      □ ▼  November (1)
          ☆ SILAS - My Home Automation
      □ ►  October (1)
      □ ►  August (3)
      □ ►  June (2)
      □ ►  April (1)

  • ►  2014 (28)
      □ ►  September (1)
      □ ►  August (5)
      □ ►  July (7)
      □ ►  June (6)
      □ ►  May (8)
      □ ►  April (1)

  • ►  2013 (13)
      □ ►  October (1)
      □ ►  September (1)
      □ ►  August (7)
      □ ►  July (2)
      □ ►  May (2)

  • ►  2012 (65)
      □ ►  August (1)
      □ ►  July (2)
      □ ►  June (1)
      □ ►  May (11)
      □ ►  April (15)
      □ ►  March (14)
      □ ►  February (10)
      □ ►  January (11)

  • ►  2011 (42)
      □ ►  December (14)
      □ ►  November (17)
      □ ►  October (8)
      □ ►  September (3)

●

Bender Blog List

  • 
    Friendly Atheist
    Restaurant Manager Sends Note to Local Pastor After Waiter Gets a Jesus
    Pamphlet Instead of a Tip
    2 hours ago
  • 
    Pharyngula
    Memories!
    4 hours ago
  • 
    Bad Astronomy
    Fighting Alzheimer’s Together, Through Citizen Science
    4 hours ago
  • 
    The Way Forward
    Atheists Really Believe in God But Refuse to Admit It says Pastor Nate
    Pickowicz
    15 hours ago
  • 
    The Atheist Experience
    Open thread for episode 20.03: Russell and guest Neil Carter
    5 days ago
  • 
    JESUS NEEDS MONEY
    God's Breath Required For Frost
    3 weeks ago
  • 
    of mule dung and ash
    No, you're not entitled to your opinion
    3 weeks ago
  • 
    Parents Beyond Belief
    Equality beyond belief
    2 years ago

●

Followers

●

Google+ Followers

[A_logo]
●

Me on Facebook

Larry Mathys
[1303468396]
Create Your Badge
●

Atheist Blogroll

Atheist Blogroll
●
●
 
Simple template. Powered by Blogger.
●
