Rant In A-Minor

Search Form Keyword [search keyword ...       ] [ ]
  • Home
  • About
  • Links

The Mighty Douche

Posted by Kris King on September 21st, 2013 | 0 comments | Download PDF
atheism . belief . christianity . comedy . freedom . hypocrisy . internet .
intolerance . offence . religion . satire
share button image like button image tweet button image

Yes, yes … I know … it’s been six whole months since my last blog post and
you’ve been worrying yourself sick all that time, not knowing how you should
think about certain things, or whether I would ever be around again to offer
your lives a much needed injection of wisdom and humour that you’re frankly
unable to formulate for yourselves. Well, fear not, for I have risen, out of
the ashes (well, out of the ramshackle spare room studio playing host to my
band’s noise-making activities for most of the past year) and ready to deliver
some righteous word-mangling into your eager eye-boxes that they might
electrically tickle those parts of your brain responsible for giggling like a
loony or getting into a Daily Mail-style froth at what a giant pile of steaming
arse this world can be from time to time. As is so often the case, it all
begins with an argument on Twitter … Read more “The Mighty Douche”

Sacred Cow

Posted by Kris King on March 30th, 2013 | 0 comments | Download PDF
ann widdecombe . bbc . belief . blasphemy . catholicism . christianity . comedy
. freedom . hypocrisy . intolerance . islam . morality . offence . religion .
satire
share button image like button image tweet button image

Flipping channels the other night, desperately trying to find something less
likely to rape my IQ than, well, pretty much everything that every network has
ever shat into its nightly schedules ever, I stumbled on to “Are You Having a
Laugh? Comedy and Christianity”, an offering from BBC1 in which the
self-righteous former MP, epic dance failure, and massive bag of conservative
catholic judgement and masturbatory nightmare-fuel Ann Widdecombe was using her
loud, barely-contained witch’s cackle to whine about how Jesus and his
billion-strong gang of sycophantic stalkers have become something of a target
for comedy in the modern era, and that this simply won’t do. Apparently the
one-time candidate for Tory party leadership, frequently referred to by the
people of Britain as “Doris Karloff” (presumably because she has the looks and
substantially atrophied thought-processes of a recently exhumed corpse), sees
the widespread mockery of people’s most cherished beliefs (well, hers at least)
as being yet another example of the continuing persecution of christians, in
wilful ignorance, it seems, of the fact that, actually, nothing is “sacred”.
Read more “Sacred Cow”

How much to rape your kid?

Posted by Kris King on February 28th, 2013 | 0 comments | Download PDF
belief . catholicism . children . christianity . god . morality . pope .
religion
share button image like button image tweet button image

It might seem like a deliberately offensive question to ask, one intended
solely to provoke a specific reaction, but I want you to know that I am
entirely sincere when I ask it because I really would like an answer – it is
said, after all, that everything has a price, and I am particularly curious as
to what yours might be. Actually, “price” is probably the wrong word and the
question, to be fair, is a pointedly obtuse one, so let me rephrase it. What,
to you, would be adequate compensation for the rape of your child? What do you
consider to be suitable recompense? What would you be comfortable accepting in
return for your child being subjected to the worst kind of trauma (short of
also being tortured and murdered) that they could possibly endure? Save your
reply because, ultimately, whether you believe in a god or not your answer
should be exactly the same: there is nothing that anyone could ever accept –
nothing. The trouble is that, if you’re a theist, this isn’t actually true –
it’s merely what you’ve tricked yourself into believing. If you’re honest you
would admit that you do have a price – and it’s absolutely nothing. Read more
“How much to rape your kid?”

Less is Moore

Posted by Kris King on January 27th, 2013 | 0 comments | Download PDF
bigotry . fuckwits . gender . ignorance . internet . intolerance . lgbt . media
. transgender . transphobia . writing
share button image like button image tweet button image

There’s an old cliche which states that the arrival time of a certain kind of
road-based, public transport vehicle has little to do with traffic flow,
mechanical problems, and the ever-unpredictable human element all conspiring to
exert a negative impact upon the published timetable (and, inevitably, your
opinion of the eternal optimist who formulated it). Apparently it is, instead,
more like blog post ideas, in that there’ll be extended periods of bugger all
followed by a flurry of activity; this time, however, the driver of one such
bus forced their way to the front of the idea queue and insisted I ride with
them first. This tortured analogy (it’ll all make sense in the end, I promise)
is my way of saying that, for the first time ever, this is an “on-demand rant”
(making me a bit like BBC iPlayer – “making the unbearable vaguely tolerable”);
yes, my fellow Blunt-murderer Aerynne has asked me to say a few loud words
about the whole Suzanne Moore-Julie Burchill transphobia, journalists and
social media thing, and I’m only too happy to oblige. So, cue the animated
circle of interminable buffering! Read more “Less is Moore”

How was it for you?

Posted by Kris King on December 30th, 2012 | 0 comments | Download PDF
christmas . comedy . mitch benn . music . new year . work
share button image like button image tweet button image

Don’t look at me like that! Unless we spent the night intensively researching
the contents of each other’s underpants and you’ve somehow forgotten (it’s
perfectly understandable – I am, after all, the sexual equivalent of
Alzheimer’s), then you’ll know perfectly well that I didn’t mean it like that.
I was merely asking, albeit in a “nudge nudge, wink wink” sort of a way, how
your 2012 has been? Did you have a good christmas? Survive the Mayan apocalypse
okay? Did you enjoy the Olympics? What about the Diamond Jubilee? [if you
answer “yes” to that last one, please fuck all the way off right now]. Was it,
by and large, a good year for you, your family, friends, and/or insert suitable
noun to indicate other members of your social circle here? Okay, look, I admit
it, I’m completely shit at dealing with life’s little pleasantries whenever a
detectable measure of sincerity is required, and especially when, hands in the
air, I kind of did mean it like that. Well, I meant it in a metaphorical way …
let me explain … Read more “How was it for you?”

51st State

Posted by Kris King on November 29th, 2012 | 0 comments | Download PDF
america . bigotry . election . fuckwits . gay . government . homophobia . lgbt
. marriage . mitt romney . republican
share button image like button image tweet button image

I don’t know if you’ve heard about this but, apparently, there’s been a big
election of some kind recently? I can’t remember where, it was only mentioned
briefly on the news … I think it was Australia, but in any case I get the
impression that a lot people thought it was a really big deal. I suppose that’s
always going to be a problem, living on a tiny island like ours; we’re so cut
off from the reality of what’s going on in the world, and in the lives of other
people, that we exist in a near-permanent state of total ignorance. If we’re
honest with ourselves, though, we’d have to admit that it’s ultimately our
fault that we never seem to know what’s going on because, for the most part, we
seldom venture outside our self-imposed bubble and, because we’ve built up such
a formidable wall of self-delusion where our knowledge should be, whenever we
do emerge from the anti-chrome shelters we built in the 1950s to keep all the
colours out we end up exposing ourselves as a bunch of arrogant, self-serving,
jizz-buckets who are doomed to perpetual, and miserable, failure for holding in
the utmost contempt anyone and everyone who’s even slightly different from us.
Oh, hang on a minute … sorry, I’ve gone and gotten myself confused again. When
I said “us” and “we”, I actually meant “Republicans”. Fucking Republicans …
Read more “51st State”

Nonce Upon A Time

Posted by Kris King on October 31st, 2012 | 0 comments | Download PDF
atheism . belief . blasphemy . catholicism . children . christianity . freedom
. islam . malala yousafzai . offence . religion
share button image like button image tweet button image

Before I get too caught up in the excitement at having finally reached my 50th
rant, I should let you know that this could, in all probability, be my last
ever blog post. Don’t worry, I’m not doing that narcissistic, “Oh, woe is me! I
can’t take this harsh, abusive, blogging world any more, I’m leaving!”
bullshit; such pitiful attention-whoring, the desperate expectation that my
army of drooling, lead-paint drinking followers will validate my existence and
wank my ego by imploring, “Come back, please! We can’t hold a coherent thought
without your constant wisdom!” No, the fact is that this trivial milestone rant
says one or two things that might result in my getting killed to pieces,
ironically by the religion of peace, for offending their not-at-all insecure
faith, blaspheming against their religion, and insulting their prophet by
referring to Muhammad, entirely accurately (at least, according to their own
holy texts), as a kiddie-fiddling, molestation-happy, child-rapist. Read more
“Nonce Upon A Time”

Page 1 of 812345678»

 

  • RSS POSTS
  • RSS COMMENTS

Fifty Shades of Rage cover image

  • Tags

    religion belief fuckwits christianity god life ignorance morality media
    science delusion government intolerance bigotry children responsibility
    freedom love death atheism medicine reason power hypocrisy music america
    britain bible gender comedy sexuality jesus lgbt parents meaning offence
  • Archives

      □ ►2013 (4)
          ☆ ►September (1)
          ☆ ►March (1)
          ☆ ►February (1)
          ☆ ►January (1)
      □ ►2012 (16)
          ☆ ►December (1)
          ☆ ►November (1)
          ☆ ►October (1)
          ☆ ►September (1)
          ☆ ►August (1)
          ☆ ►July (1)
          ☆ ►June (1)
          ☆ ►May (2)
          ☆ ►April (1)
          ☆ ►March (2)
          ☆ ►February (1)
          ☆ ►January (3)
      □ ►2011 (32)
          ☆ ►December (4)
          ☆ ►November (3)
          ☆ ►October (5)
          ☆ ►September (4)
          ☆ ►August (4)
          ☆ ►July (4)
          ☆ ►June (3)
          ☆ ►May (5)
      □ ►2010 (4)
          ☆ ►October (1)
          ☆ ►September (1)
          ☆ ►May (1)
          ☆ ►April (1)
      □ 
  • Categories

      □ Art, Culture, and Sport
      □ Atheism, Religion, and Belief
      □ Business and Financial
      □ Crime and Punishment
      □ General
      □ Media, Entertainment, and Celebrity
      □ Politics and Philosophy
      □ Science, Technology, and Medicine
      □ Social and Personal
  • Worthwhile Distractions

    The Out Campaign badge
    Atheist Nexus badge
    Atheist Blogroll badge
    Planet Atheism badge
  • Pointless Trophies

    50th rant badge 1st interview badge 1st year badge 25th rant badge Hated by
    a "psychic" badge

share button image like button image tweet button image
(C) Copyright 2010 - 2016 Distant Angel Distant Angel Web Portal button image 
Original theme design by Bingo (adapted by Kris King). C4FTextAreaToolbar by
Code4Fun
HostGator promotional code
