Skeptical Software Tools

Applying the power of the programmable web to the purposes of skepticism.

Menu Skip to content

  • Home
  • About
  • SkepConGuide
  • Virtual Skeptics
  • Skeptic History
  • What’s the Harm?

[skeptools-circuit-board-header2]

Where to see me at DragonCon 2015

Leave a reply

DragonCon logoI will be attending DragonCon this weekend, as I usually do. It
is my home-town convention so I always look forward to catching up with my
sci-fi and skeptic friends during the Labor Day weekend.

DragonCon is pretty gigantic – it spreads across five major hotels and a
convention center and it has its own custom smartphone app just so attendees
can manage their schedule. As of this writing even the information in the
smartphone app is not quite complete, at least for my schedule. So for
reference, here’s where you can see me speak during the weekend:

Year of the Data Breach

Friday 11:30am – Hilton 201 (EFF Track)
Sony, Anthem, Home Depot, OPM, and many others. What’s up with corporate
information security these days? Why are so many companies getting hacked?
 Other panelists include Blair B. Chintella (moderator), Amie Stepanovich,
Josh Ruppe, Chris Grayson.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Tuff Topics for Parents

Friday 8:30pm – Marriott A708 (Kaleidoscope Track)
Well mannered but frank discussion of tough topics including bullying, LGBTQ,
cyber-bullying, the internet and social topics. Targeted at adults. Ohter
panelists include Ronald Thomas Garner, Tony Gowell.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Hacking 101

Saturday 7:00pm – Marriott A601-A602 (EFF Track)
Hacking 101 returns for another glorious year! Just what is a hacker anyway?
Culture, history, contacts, resources, and pointers for more info. Brought to
you by se2600.org.  Other panelists include Randal L. Schwartz, Kit Walsh and
jonny X.

If you are interested in what sorts of topics get covered in the Hacking 101
session, here’s video of the one from last year, on which I also appeared.

You can watch two other computer technology panels on which I appeared last
year in this playlist in my YouTube channel.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

SkepTech

Sunday 1:00pm – Hilton Room 204-207 (Skeptrack)
Skeptical thinking isn’t always about Bigfeet, Ghosts, and Tarot… Sometimes it
can be in your tech too!  Other panelists include Tom Merritt and Veronica
Belmont.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Wrap-Up and Feedback

Monday 1:00pm – Hilton Room 204-207 (Skeptrack)
Come and join us for a discussion about the past weekend. Discuss the
highlights, and offer feedback for ideas in 2016!  Other (tentative) panelists
include James Randi, Richard Carrier, Margaret Downey, Barbara Drescher, Ian
Harris and Evan Bernstein.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

You’ll probably see me in the Skeptrack room at various times during the
weekend. I’m also using the DragonCon smartphone app to track what other
sessions I’m attending, if you want to catch up with me send me a friend
request in the app.

A couple of notes – we are not repeating the Ignite Skepticism program we did
last year. We had hoped to repeat it this year, but it didn’t come together due
to various things (such as my wedding in August). It will return in the future.

Also if you are looking for the WiFi guide to DragonCon you can find last
year’s guide at that link. I didn’t have time to update it this year either –
if I notice any significant changes I’ll post them on Twitter, so please follow
me.

Like this post? Share it:

  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • Google
  • Reddit
  • Tumblr
  • Flattr
  • 

This entry was posted in meta, Skeptic Events on September 1, 2015 by Tim
Farley.

How to be thorough when you patrol Wikipedia for vandalism

Leave a reply

Wikipedia logoI’ve written several times about patrolling Wikipedia for
vandalism. It a great way for new editors to get practice with simple editing
tasks. It is also can be a way for skeptics to demonstrate our impartiality.

It’s important to remember that vandalism on Wikipedia, just as in the real
world, is often done in sprees. This is important, because it can help you
avoid overlooking some instances that might be right under your nose.

Consider a piece of Bigfoot-related nonsense I removed from the Ape Canyon
article recently:

Ape Canyon edit

The edit here (at bottom) was by an anonymous user – you can see it is logged
to the IP address 50.107.128.28. Looking at the contents of the edit, I found
it was a made-up species name (“Gigantopithecus sapiens helena”) for the
cryptid apes that were reported at Ape Canyon. But this name is
completely fictional, it’s never been assigned by actual scientists. So
removing it is uncontroversial.

I removed it. Now I could have just patted myself on the back and moved on, but
remember this edit was logged to an IP address – i.e. an anonymous user. What
if this was part of a vandalism spree?

It turns out there’s an incredibly easy way to investigate this. Simply click
the IP address right there in the editing history, and Wikipedia will show you
the history of edits originating anonymously from that address. In this case,
this is what came up:

Wikipedia history for IP address 50.107.128.28

Cryptozoology fans will probably recognize all three of those article names.
Sure enough, this anonymous user had in fact edited three different articles
about Bigfoot-like cryptids. Sure enough, clicking those “hist” links revealed
the other two edits were exactly the same sort of thing – insertions of fake
species names for other varieties of Bigfoot.

None of these edits had any basis in reality, and none belong in an
encyclopedia. Just a couple clicks later, I had removed all three. But if I
hadn’t thought to look at the editing history for that IP address, I would have
only been able to fix one third of the underlying problem!

So next time you’re removing a bogus Wikipedia edit, be it vandalism or
nonsense, don’t stop there. Take a quick look at the editing history for the
responsible source – be it a regular user or an IP address. You may have found
the tip of an iceberg.

Like this post? Share it:

  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • Google
  • Reddit
  • Tumblr
  • Flattr
  • 

This entry was posted in How To, Wikipedia and tagged vandalism, wikipedia on
April 2, 2015 by Tim Farley.

Targeted ads for outreach on skeptic topics

1 Reply

HBO premiered the Alex Gibney Scientology documentary “Going Clear” last night.
It airs many more times on various HBO channels through April and on their
on-demand service – I encourage you to check it out. It is based on the 2013
book oGoing Clear by Lawrence Wrightf the same name by Lawrence Wright, which
detailed many abuses that have gone on in the church. Both the book and the
documentary feature damning testimony by many ex-members of the church, some of
whom had very high ranking positions.

The church itself, needless to say, is not amused. In typical fashion it has
waged a PR war against the film, starting with an expensive full-page ad in the
New York Times on January 16. It has continued its assault with a series of
articles printed in their own “Freedom Magazine”. (The material there largely
consists of a series of ad hominem attacks on the former Scientologists
interviewed in the film).

But how is the church expecting any of this additional material to be seen by
the general public? Freedom Magazine is not well known outside church circles,
and the New York Times ad has not repeated.  Who is going to bother to go to
this obscure website to read these attacks?

The answer is in online advertising. How the church is using online ads may
have some interesting lessons for skeptics.

Continue reading →

Like this post? Share it:

  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • Google
  • Reddit
  • Tumblr
  • Flattr
  • 

This entry was posted in Social Media, Web and tagged AdWords, Google, outreach
, seo, Twitter on March 30, 2015 by Tim Farley.

I defended Dr. Oz on Wikipedia – and you should too.

4 Replies
Dr. Oz

Dr. Oz at ServiceNation 2008 by David Berkowitz licensed CC BY 2.0 via
Wikipedia.

In my how-to series on becoming a Wikipedia editor, I highly recommend spending
time patrolling for vandalism using a watch list. It’s good practice with the
software, and it helps you build up a positive editing history.

Vandalism on Wikipedia is unfortunately constant – a side effect of their
radically open editing policy. This policy allows anyone to anonymously edit
most articles, logged only by IP address.

Because skeptical topics are often controversial (in some circles at least),
they can spark strong responses, including sometimes vandalism. As a result, if
you’re looking for vandalism to fix, skeptic-relevant articles often provide
plenty of ammunition.

Indeed, over my career as a Wikipedia editor I’ve removed the word “idiot” from
Australian science communicator Dr. Karl’s biography, undone claims that Indian
skeptic Prabir Ghosh is a “fake doctor” and excised antisemitic slurs from the
biography of Professor Michael Barkun.

Defending Everyone Equally

But I don’t reserve my vandalism patrols just for people I consider allies.
I’ve also removed the word “douchebag” from the biography of Bart Sibrel (famed
for being hit by Buzz Aldrin). I’ve cut out some rude edits regarding L.Ron
Hubbard. I’ve even removed some creative writing on Larry King’s biography that
verges into science fiction.

Because of his current fame, Dr. Oz has been a repeated target for attacks.
I’ve removed an accusation that he is a bad surgeon, undone some veiled
anti-Muslim sentiment from his article and removed weasel words about his
training. I’ve even erased the phrase “quack doctor” from his biography!

Why Defend The Bad Guys?

Some skeptics might wonder, why bother with this? Folks like Dr. Oz are a
detriment to society, don’t they deserve to take some lumps occasionally? Maybe
so, but Wikipedia is absolutely the wrong venue for this.

Skeptics already get wrongly accused of many crimes on Wikipedia. This occurs
in part because Wikipedia’s rules and administration are admittedly pro-science
. So when we simply enforce the rules, we are perceived as having a pro-skeptic
bias.

As a result, we need to do everything we can to provide evidence that we are
not in fact biased. Applying the rules (such as the rules on vandalism to
biographies) equally to friend and foe is a great way to accomplish this.

Removing vandalism is easy, once you know how. And it demonstrates our lack of
bias clearly and unambiguously. It is also a good way to help maintain
Wikipedia’s excellent record for quickly removing vandalism.

Bottom line: skeptics should not tolerate name-calling and bias on Wikipedia,
whether it is for us or against us. And the editing history will back us up
when we point this out.

Like this post? Share it:

  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • Google
  • Reddit
  • Tumblr
  • Flattr
  • 

This entry was posted in Skeptic Activism, Wikipedia and tagged Bart Sibrel,
Dr. Oz, Guerrilla Skepticism, vandalism, wikipedia on March 23, 2015 by Tim
Farley.

Online tools are great – until they disappear

8 Replies
Closed Sign by James Alan, licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via Wikipedia

Closed Sign by James Alan, licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via Wikipedia

Facebook announced last week that the service FriendFeed would be shut down in
April. I was a FriendFeed user, I even used to have a link to it here on the
Skeptic History page – for those who wanted to see the daily history posts
using that service. But it’s been increasingly less useful as it has been
supplanted by newer services like Twitter and Facebook itself.

As we use online tools to achieve specific goals, we must be mindful that they
do disappear like this. It’s always wise to have a good idea what benefit you
are getting from which tools, and which alternatives are available should one
disappear.

Let’s take a moment to consider a few tools that have disappeared recently, why
that happens and some good strategies for might replacing them.

Continue reading →

Like this post? Share it:

  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • Google
  • Reddit
  • Tumblr
  • Flattr
  • 

This entry was posted in Web, Tools and tagged FriendFeed, TruthMarket,
Unsourced.org, Trooclick, Izitru, FourMatch, Media Standards Trust, WikiScanner
, WikiWatchdog, open source, WikiTrust on March 16, 2015 by Tim Farley.

Deepak Chopra’s Twitter Trolling Continues

1 Reply

Deepak Chopra is still trolling people on Twitter, it seems. On February 10th 
Professor Brian Cox appeared on Conan and related a familiar story about
Chopra’s behavior. Watch the short clip:

As you may recall, last May I documented Deepak Chopra’s habit of trolling
well-known skeptics and atheists on Twitter. He repeatedly taunts them, tweets
links at them and makes snide or insulting remarks.

Among the things that make the behavior so blatant is Chopra includes Daniel
Dennett and Jerry Coyne in his taunts. Dennett very rarely converses
with anyone on Twitter, and never with Chopra.  Coyne has specifically stated
on his blog that he never converses on Twitter at all – he just uses it to as
an alternate blog feed. Chopra must know this. One can only conclude his
one-sided conversations are an elaborate show for his own followers.

But some people do respond to Chopra, including Brian Cox as seen in the clip.
(Their previous Twitter exchanges have been documented by Jerry Coyne on more
than one occasion).

Incidentally, the angry tweet Cox mentions in the clip appears to have been
deleted by Chopra. He does that a bit too, in my earlier post I document one
tweet to me that he deleted. Tracking Chopra’s deleted tweets might be an
interesting skeptic project.

After the program aired, this bizarre exchange occurred:

    Where is @ProfBrianCox @TeamCoco pic.twitter.com/28Pb6QfUSv

    — Deepak Chopra (@DeepakChopra) February 12, 2015

    What the HOLY JESUS is this? RT @DeepakChopra: Where is @ProfBrianCox @
    TeamCoco http://t.co/FVKEUDEqH0

    —
    Dr Adam Rutherford (@AdamRutherford) February 12, 2015


    @AdamRutherford @DeepakChopra @TeamCoco I have no idea, but I'm having it
    made into wallpaper for my under-stairs bathroom.

    —
    Brian Cox (@ProfBrianCox) February 12, 2015

Like this post? Share it:

  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • Google
  • Reddit
  • Tumblr
  • Flattr
  • 

This entry was posted in Bad Behavior, Social Media and tagged Brian Cox, Conan
, Deepak Chopra, troll, Twitter on March 2, 2015 by Tim Farley.

Google promoting trusted health answers in Knowledge Graph

Leave a reply

Google Knowledge graph splash screenIn 2012, Google introduced a feature to
their search engine they call Knowledge Graph. The company has compiled
millions of facts into a database, and offers them up on the right-hand side of
search engine result pages in a handy box. The graph is also the source of many
of the answers you get in the voice response versions of Google, such as in
Google’s smartphone apps.

The answers come from many sources including the CIA World Factbook and
Wikipedia. At the time this was launched, I wrote how skeptic efforts editing
Wikipedia were paying off in a new way, exposing the public to skeptics and
skeptical topics in these knowledge graph boxes.

Low back pain on Google Knowledge Graph Feb 2015On February 10 Google announced
an enhancement to this product, adding a whole new class of data – answers to
medical questions. As they explained in their introductory blog post:

    We worked with a team of medical doctors (led by our own Dr. Kapil Parakh,
    M.D., MPH, Ph.D.) to carefully compile, curate, and review this
    information. All of the gathered facts represent real-life clinical
    knowledge from these doctors and high-quality medical sources across the
    web, and the information has been checked by medical doctors at Google and
    the Mayo Clinic for accuracy.

This has a great potential to combat the infamous “Dr. Google” syndrome. This
is a popular term for the tendency of incorrect or even pseudoscientific
information, by virtue of its prominence in the search engine, misleading the
public. Who can forget the 2007 sound byte from the Oprah Winfrey Show, when
Jenny McCarthy stated, “The University of Google is where I got my degree from
“? How many others are out there learning incorrect info from bogus websites
pushed up into the Google results via SEO techniques?

Many different studies have shown that search engine users rarely move beyond
the first page of results. Thus the placement of these knowledge graph results
prominently on the first page of results might have a good effect. It remains
to be seen whether these knowledge graph boxes will help draw attention from
potentially dangerous organic search results.

You can recognize the new additions because they typically appear in boxes
offering separate tabs on general info, symptoms and treatments. They also
always contain advice to consult a medical doctor for advice. (See diagram).

I searched several medical topics and was pleased that I could not find any in
which alternative medicine had been included. For instance, the lower back pain
topic shown here does not offer acupuncture or chiropractic as an option. This
is a good sign, but skeptics should keep an eye on this feature. I’m sure the
alternative medicine community will eventually pressure Google to include their
nonsense.

If you do notice spurious alternative medical information appearing in one of
these results, you can click the word Feedback at lower right. The box will
highlight and show a prompt to click on the error. You can then select which
piece of information is incorrect – you will be prompted to explain why you
think it is wrong.

Like this post? Share it:

  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • Google
  • Reddit
  • Tumblr
  • Flattr
  • 

This entry was posted in Web and tagged alternative medicine, Google, knowledge
graph on February 26, 2015 by Tim Farley.

Post navigation

← Older posts
My Tweets
You should follow Tim Farley @krelnik on TwitterFriend Tim Farley @krelnik on
TwitterCircle Tim Farley on Google+

RSS My latest posts at INSIGHT

  • Newsrooms Building Online Tools Skeptics Can Use February 9, 2015
  • Obituaries of Skepticism in 2014 December 23, 2014
  • A Skeptical Maxim (May) Turn 75 This Week November 4, 2014

RSS Upcoming major skeptic events

  • Fort Collins Skepticamp, 23rd January 2016
  • Surfcoast Summer Skepticamp V, 27th February 2016
  • Rationalist International Conference, 23rd-24th April 2016
  • SkepKon 2016, 5th-7th May 2016
  • SkeptiCamp LA 2016 Skeptics by the Sea at Santa Monica College, 7th May
    2016
  • Northeast Conference on Science and Skepticism (NECSS), 12th-15th May 2016

Blogroll

  •    
  • Churnalism US – find copy-and-pasted content
  • CONsequence podcast
  • Debunkatron – links to key skeptical material
  • Doubtful News – news aggregator
  • DropKicker – critiques of technical claims in crowdfunding campaigns
  • Guerrilla Skepticism on Wikipedia – crowdsourced action
  • Jenny McCarthy
  • Lanyrd – list of major skeptic events
  • Meetups – skeptic groups near you
  • Rational Wiki – specialized wiki for skeptics
  • RBUTR – find or supply rebuttals for online content
  • Reality Drop – gamified action against climate change misinformation
  • Reddit – skeptic content aggregated by crowdsourcing
  • Secular Directory – find secular groups & events near you
  • SkepGIT – open source skepticism
  • SkepticAction – daily skeptic crowdsourcing
  • SkeptiCamp – open skeptic events
  • Skepticator – skeptic blog/podcast feed aggregator
  • Skeptics on the .Net – catalog of skepticism online
  • SkepTunes – skeptic podcast database
  • Stack Exchange – skeptic questions & answers
  • Sylvia Browne
  • Unsourced – find source behind news articles
  • Vaccine Watch – University of Connecticut vaccine denialism monitor
  • Vaccine-Preventable disease outbreak map: 2008-present (CFR)
  • Virtual Skeptics – video webcast panel show
  • Web of Trust – site ratings
  • What’s the Harm?
  • World Homeopathy Awareness Week

RSS Latest cases added to What’s the Harm:

  • Beverly A. Wunder
  • Lee Muk-yiu & 2 others
  • Christine Jessop
  • Guy Paul Morin
  • Russell & Ruby Grafton
  • John Kimani & 2 others
  • 54 hospital workers
  • 9 deceased Gabon citizens
  • "Jane Roe"
  • Laverne Burrell & 4 others
  • Robert Faurisson
  • Steve Crowder & 100 others

The Twenty Twelve Theme. Blog at WordPress.com.
Skeptical Software Tools
Blog at WordPress.com. The Twenty Twelve Theme.
Follow

Follow “Skeptical Software Tools”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 20,019 other followers

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
