[skepticalseekerlogo3]

The Skeptical Seeker

"Skeptical scrutiny is the means, in both science and religion, by which deep
insights can be winnowed from deep nonsense." Carl Sagan

Navigation

Skip to content

  • Home
  • Atheist Activism
  • Who is the Skeptical Seeker?

Post navigation

← Older posts

Question with Boldness: Thoughts on Belief

Featured | Posted by Mikel


    “Question with boldness even the existence of a God; because, if there be
    one, he must more approve of the homage of reason, than that of
    blind-folded fear.”
    — Thomas Jefferson

What do I believe? I find it a bit odd when people say that atheists believe in
nothing. To be human is to hold beliefs, for better or worse.  I am giving some
thought to the things that I believe. I can’t say that I know that all of these
things are true, or that I can prove them to be true, but they seem true to me.

  • I believe that people are basically good. That when they are freed from
    fear, want, and desperation people will usually do the right thing.
  • I believe that the natural word provides enough mystery and wonder to make
    the notion of supernatural miracles just seem silly and wrong.
  • I believe that the best guides to the truth are science
    and philosophy working in cooperation with one another. Science provides
    the facts, and philosophy makes the facts meaningful.
  • I believe that the best guide to morality is reason guided by empathy.
  • I believe that all gods in all religions were invented by human minds, and
    that the supernatural claims of all religions are false.

When I was a Christian teenager, when my doubts about the religious tenants
that I had been taught would rise to the surface, I would try to beat them down
again by declaring my belief (even if only to myself) and insisting that I
really did believe. The problem with that is clear to me now. I had been told
that there were certain things that I must believe, no matter what, or my soul
was in danger of eternal damnation. Or even worse, that if I disbelieved in the
story of Christianity my remaining years on earth would become empty and
meaningless. To tell the truth, I was pleasantly surprised when I found out
that this last statement was a complete and utter lie. Life actually becomes
more meaningful when you are not trying to force yourself to believe in things
that don’t quite make sense.

Beliefs

Beliefs (Photo credit: Wikipedia)

Actually, I’d say it’s not so much that I didn’t believe the doctrines, but
rather that I didn’t know that not believing them was a viable option. It’s
hard enough to question your beliefs even without the threat of punishment if
you should change your mind. This is the difference between this enumeration of
beliefs that I am doing now and what I did as a Christian teenager. Now I am
actually pondering my own mind and behavior and trying to pull to the surface
what I really believe, rather than making a declaration of the things I think I
ought to believe.

Everyone has beliefs. In fact it would be impossible to function as human
beings without beliefs, because we are always acting in the face of incomplete
knowledge. I find myself in a bit of a dilemma when trying to enumerate the
things that I believe because I have the strong suspicion that a large number
of things I believe are lurking below the surface of my consciousness…the
assumptions that I hold without knowing that I am holding them until the truth
comes up and slaps me in the face.

This is a point of humility for this atheist. Sure, you can make a lot of the
fact that I boldly questioned the religious beliefs of my upbringing and found
them to be utterly unsupported. It is a big deal. I had a lot of help–such as a
friend who questioned me and asked “how do you know?” and books and professors
that teachers who showed me that there are other ways to look at the world. The
sort of beliefs that worry me the most now are those that are so engrained in
our culture that we may rarely if ever be exposed to other points of view. What
other irrational and unsupported beliefs might I be holding now?

The red flag that I might be holding one of these false beliefs is if I get
angry or offended at someone else’s words. Why would
someone else’s expressed opinions ever have that effect on me?  The key is to
keep learning and keep searching and keep questioning. Any opportunity to
adjust my belief to be more in tune with reality is an opportunity that should
not be missed.

So go ahead, offend me.

Posted in Activism, Atheism Tagged Atheism, Belief, philosophy, questioning,
religion, Religion and Spirituality, science and philosophy, theology 1 Comment
Featured Image -- 2345

The Ferguson Masterpost: How To Argue Eloquently & Back Yourself Up With Facts

Posted on November 30, 2014 by Mikel


    Wow. As a contract to the general media confusion around the events in
    Ferguson, MO, this is a very organzed and imformative post. I think I’ll be
    digging through this for some time, but for now I wanted to go ahead and
    spread the word.

[c3][smut & sensibility]

We encourage you to share the link to this rather than reblogging the entire
post (since this is frequently updated and we want to minimize the spread of
outdated info!): bit.ly/FergusonAEM. Also, comment volume is high enough that
personal replies are not always possible anymore; browse through the comments &
see if your issues/ideas have been addressed there.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Introduction From The Curator

Updates & Notes After Initial Publication

Note (11/30/14 at 12:35 PM EST): This was initially meant to be a smaller post,
but I feel a duty to keep updating and fleshing it out. Still, I won’t be able
to go past a certain point. That said, I hope it’s still helpful to y’all in
whatever iteration is final & that you continue the conversation.

Note (11/29/14 at 8:00 PM EST): Holy moly, this got a ton of traction. Thanks
to all the folks sharing, commenting, and helping us correct typos…

View original post 8,507 more words

Posted in Uncategorized Leave a comment

Happy Thanksgiving!

Posted on November 27, 2014 by Mikel

I am thankful for a warm house, hot coffee, the sense of safety I feel when I
take a walk in my neighborhood (even when walking alone, or at night), and the
fact that I can freely express my views on religion and politics without fear
of persecution from my government. And that is the short list.

Posted in Uncategorized Tagged secular, Thanksgiving Leave a comment
skepticon7logo

What I learned at Skepticon 7

Posted on November 24, 2014 by Mikel

I just got back home from Skepticon 7 late last night, and now is the time to
recover and reflect. (If you don’t know what Skepticon is, visit http://
skepticon.org/what/.) This year they had lots of speakers that I had not heard
before (despite having gone to plenty of atheist conventions and hearing the
most famous speakers multiple times). There was a very good variety of speakers
and I commend the organizers for putting together such a fantastic lineup!

Here are some of the main ideas and learnings that I took away from Skepticon
7.

I learned about Ben’s firsthand experience of a Humanist Service Trip with the
Pathfinders Project. The trip included teaching kids, helping villages develop
a system to access clean water, a visit to a camp for accused witches in Uganda
(and the heartbreaking results of superstition), and building latrines in
Haiti. Also, a dangerous bout with malaria, reinterpreted as a process of
personal transformation. Honestly, I am starting to cry as I write this, it was
so heartwrenching and inspiring at the same time. So go to http://
pathfindersproject.com and check out what they are doing. (Ben ‘Sweatervest’
Blanchard)

I learned that experiments with rats that show them helping other rats get out
of a trap show that empathy and helping are hard-wired into mammals and do not
require fancy cognition or culture. (Peggy Mason)

I learned that a careful analysis of studies that address the correlation of
religion and wellbeing shows that when atheists are actually included in the
studies and when the survey questions are relevant to atheists, the commonly
media-touted claims about the religious being mentally healthier than atheists
falls apart. It is a stable worldview is correlated to mental wellbeing, not a
commited faith. (Melanie Brewster)

I also learned a concept of ‘minority stress’ that can affect atheists because
of pervasive religous and anti-atheist prejudices in American culture. When
atheists are compelled to self-censor out of fear of social censure from
religous family or neighbors, and when they are exposed to frequent
anti-atheist comments, the stress can cause mental and emotional damage. This
is the major reason why atheist meetups and communities are important — they
are safe spaces where atheists can get away from the sources of minority
stress. (Melanie Brewster)

The distinction between natural and supernatural claims — between scientific
and religous claims — is an illusion. There is no good reason not to think of
the ‘supernatural’ (if it exists) as a natural realm that follows rules just
like the natural world that we know. This idea has interesting implications for
the sorts of claims that the religous make about God. (Scott Clifton)

I learned about ‘citizen science’ and there are websites like http://
scistarter.com that anyone can go to to participate in the data-gathering
process for scientific experiements, and participate in a casual or commited
way depending on their own motivation and time. (Nichole Gigliucci)

I learned how an outsider to our culture can give a fresh perspective on the
taboos and unspoken rules of our culture. (Heina Dababhoy)

I learned that ‘genderqueer’ is a gender category. I’d encountered the term
before in blogs and speeches, but I never quite had a clear idea what it
actually meant. I also learned that if you see something like ‘they/them’ in an
online profile that means that those are the pronouns that the person wishes to
be addressed by instead of ‘he’ or ‘she.’ Also, that it is appropriate to ask a
person identifying as genderqueer what pronouns they prefer if you are not
sure. (Twitter conversations in the #sk7 hashtag)

And last but not least, I learned that Skepticon organizers and participants
put on the best Prom ever! XD

Posted in Skepticon Tagged Atheism, atheist, DinoProm, genderqueer, Humanist
Service Corp, neurology, Pathfinders Project, philosophy, psycology, religion,
sk7, Skepticon, taboo 1 Comment cosmos-slice

My favorite fact of science

Posted on March 5, 2014 by Mikel

One of the fan questions in last night’s COSMOS panel (live streamed on Tuesday
night ahead of the TV première of COSMOS 2104 on Sunday) was about the panel
member’s favorite fact about science. It’s such a huge question that it would
be hard to answer on the spot. My answer to this (after some thought), is that
science is weird beyond what we can imagine and yet it is everyday, and all
around us. Ever think about why, when you put your hand on a tabletop your hand
does not just slip right though, although supposedly the atoms both are made of
are mostly empty space? It’s because the electrons in the tightly packed atoms
of your hand repel the electrons in the tightly packed atoms that make up the
table—what you feel is the result of electromagnetic repulsion. I know I’m a
big geek but when I first read about that I started tapping my hand against the
table and felt slightly giddy with fascination. (NOTE: My understanding of how
that actually works is not precise. Feel free to send corrections my way if I
have described it incorrectly.)

Then there is that favorite fact that I learned first from my astronomy prof at
UofL, and then heard again from Carl Sagan, that we are made of “starstuff.”
It’s a bit of a romantic notion since people have long mystified the stars, but
there is such an incredible depth to the idea that I never entirely get used to
it. It encompasses the Big Bang and the formation of the simplest atoms of
hydrogen. Those hydrogen atoms then clump together from gravity (since the
expansion of matter from the Big Bang was not entirely uniform) into big balls
of gas so massive that the pressure of gravity at their centers started
smashing those hydrogen atoms together so hard that they fused together to make
helium—producing vast amounts of heat and light in the process. Then the new
star took billions of years to burn up all its hydrogen, so it then starts
fusing the hydrogen into carbon—the basic elemental building block for life—and
then carbon into iron (assuming it was a really massive star) and then exploded
as a supernova since a star can’t sustain itself on iron fusion. And the heat
and pressure from the supernova (which sometimes outshine their entire galaxy!)
finishes the job and fuses the elements that are heavier than iron. *Deep
breath, ‘cause that was a mouthful.* The supernova blasted those atoms out into
space where they eventually formed dust clouds and new stars and solar systems,
and…us. The wonder of massive stars far away and long, long ago, and the
strangeness of atoms and nuclear processes, time scales beyond our innate
comprehension…that’s what we’re made of. When you really get it, doesn’t it
make your heart pound?

For a more technical and in-depth, yet simple and concise, explanation of the
life cycle of stars and the building of elements, visit http://
burro.astr.cwru.edu/stu/stars_lifedeath.html.

You can also view the panel discussion for Cosmos: A Spacetime Odyssey online
at COSMOS: A SPACETIME ODYSSEY Live Event.

Posted in Meaningfulness Tagged amazement, Carl Sagan, Cosmos, COSMOS 2014,
Neil deGrasse Tyson, science, wonder Leave a comment

NO- Part II: Using the ‘Soft No’ and the ‘Dog-voice No’ in Sexual Situations

Posted on February 4, 2014 by Mikel


    This is worth a reblog.

[bc]Disrupting Dinner Parties

content note: discussion of ‘almost’ sexual assault

In NO (Part 1), I talked about how my mother taught me to assert my boundaries
when I was I was a little girl. She taught me to say “No!” or “Stop!” loud and
clear, with a straight face and a deep, firm voice as if I was talking to a
misbehaving dog. When I grew up, it clicked that I could apply this loud,
forceful ‘Dog-voice No’ to asserting my sexual boundaries. Furthermore, I took
the principle of using firm serious body language and removed the loudness to
create what I call the ‘Soft No’—a more palatable, but still potent
I-mean-what-I-say signal.

boundaries

Fortunately, I haven’t had to use the Dog-voice No or the Soft No very often. I
am lucky enough to have spent most of my life surrounded by people that listen
to my words. Nevertheless, every now and then…

View original post 1,533 more words

Posted in Uncategorized Leave a comment

My Faith, a poem

Posted on February 3, 2014 by Mikel

Are we all…

Unworthy?
Sinners?
Lost?
Corrupted?
Needy?

You say I should get my eyes off myself and look to God?

NO!

Don’t tell me to look away, don’t you dare!
I have my faith
Faith that I can not only look at myself
But that I can turn that magnifying glass deep inside

Insecurity?
Doubt?
Fear?

Take it all in

Risk it
Accept it
Embrace it

And Then Look Deeper

I find Goodness inside of me
Compassion
Hope
Love

I will not turn away
I will not avert my eyes
I am worthy

And I am not afraid

Posted in Meaningfulness Tagged poem, self-worth 2 Comments

The Cost of Atheism (or just asking questions)

Posted on January 7, 2014 by Mikel


    Looks like the “year without a god” guy has been let go from all of his
    jobs with religious organizations and schools because of his openly
    questioning religion. Apparently, he has made some people very
    uncomfortable. The Friendly Atheist has started a fundraiser to help him
    make ends meet while he lands another job.

    And, as his blog post puts very well, he is really learning the costs that
    being atheists have for some members of our society.

[ea]Year Without God

We still love you!

So many of my closest friends and colleagues have said this to me in the past
few days. My initial, unspoken reaction was, “Well, I certainly hope so.” Now I
understand that this is not a forgone conclusion. I didn’t realize, even four
days ago, how difficult it would be for some people to embrace me while I was
embracing this journey of open inquiry into the question of God’s existence. I
have to say that anyone who knows me personally, while they may not agree with
what I’m doing or fully understand it, has expressed their support for me
personally. I deeply appreciate that because the organizations that I have been
affiliated with have not been able to do the same.

It began on the evening of January 1—the very first day of my year without god.
First text messages, then email saying, “We need…

View original post 642 more words

Posted in Uncategorized Leave a comment

2013 in review

Posted on January 1, 2014 by Mikel

The WordPress.com stats helper monkeys prepared a 2013 annual report for this
blog.

[2012-emailteaser]

Here’s an excerpt:

    A New York City subway train holds 1,200 people. This blog was viewed about
    7,700 times in 2013. If it were a NYC subway train, it would take about 6
    trips to carry that many people.

Click here to see the complete report.

Posted in Uncategorized Tagged annual report, stats helper monkeys Leave a
comment

Microblogging #365DaysofGratitude

Posted on August 3, 2013 by Mikel

For the past couple months I’ve been occupied with projects that do not include
writing new blog entries. However, in the meantime I have made it a personal
goal to post something on Twitter each day this year (since my birthday in
June) about something for which I am thankful. Well, not quite every morning
since I find it incredibly difficult to do anything consistently every day for
a year, but the intention is still there. :) These are posted to my Facebook
page as well as Twitter, so if you are interested you can follow either source.

https://www.facebook.com/pages/The-Skeptical-Seeker/185390804824946

@SkepticalSeeker on Twitter

Posted in Uncategorized Tagged 365daysofgratitude 1 Comment

The sad plight of the American housecat

Posted on May 10, 2013 by Mikel

While I am out thinking up new posts and finding time to write them, here is a
little I found on the Why Evolution is True blog. Enjoy :)

Posted in Uncategorized Tagged cats, entertainment, the truth about sad cats 
Leave a comment

Post navigation

← Older posts

Most Recent

  • The Ferguson Masterpost: How To Argue Eloquently & Back Yourself Up With
    Facts November 30, 2014
  • Happy Thanksgiving! November 27, 2014

[376ff828d28c86]

Most Popular Posts

  • Living the Life of Reason
  • Happy Thanksgiving!
  • Reasonable Living and Intentional Community
  • We're halfway out of the Dark
  • Today's Church Experience

Seek

Search [                    ] [Search]
     

Twitter

  • RT @NYDailyNews: An early look at tomorrow’s front page… GOD ISN’T FIXING
    THIS: nydn.us/21wCIkY https://t.co/j4gEFg9YtJ 1 month ago
  • RT @NARAL: The #prochoice movement is turning #ColoradoSprings into a
    rallying cry: bzfd.it/1Ik2RwW #InvestigateClinicViolence @Buz… 1 month ago
  • RT @Bambookiller: The people who made that fraudulent anti-Planned
    Parenthood video must be so pleased about the level of damage that simpl…
    1 month ago
  • RT @PPRockyMountain: Statement regarding situation in Colorado Springs:
    https://t.co/n31EqwYYh8 1 month ago

Goodreads

Categories

Categories[Select Category                  ]

Tags

abortion activism American Atheist American Atheists Atheism atheist Atheists
Belief Bible brain Carl Sagan Christian christianity Christmas Church
compassion Darrel Ray doubt Dr. Tiller education enlightenment evangelicalism
evolution expectations Eye surgery faith femininity feminism focus on the
family Freethinkers Freethought God Health Holidays Infidel Jesus Kentucky
Kentucky Freethought Convention kentucky secular society kentucky state fair
Lasik liberal Medicine meditation morality mythology myths naturalism
Ophthalmology Opinions peace rationality Reason Rally religion Religion and
Spirituality religious rights Richard Dawkins science Secularism Secular
Student Alliance separation of church and state sexuality Skepticism Skepticon
Springfield Missouri Thanksgiving The Thinking Atheist United State United
States unorthodox Winter Solstice womanhood women words yoga
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. | The Confit Theme.
Follow

Follow “The Skeptical Seeker”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 442 other followers

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[b]
