Southern Skeptic
[INS::INS]

  • Home
  • Letters To My Former Self
  • Why I’m Doing This
  • List of Posts
  • Contact Me

Recent Articles

If You Were Wrong, Would You Want To Know?

Filed in Psychology, Skepticism by Matt on January 21, 2016 • 0 Comments
If You Were Wrong, Would You Want To Know?

Back when I was an evangelical Christian, I sometimes asked myself, “If I were
wrong, would I want to know?” My answer was always yes, which is what most
people would say, but it’s not that simple. Oftentimes we think we want to know
if we’re wrong, but when we learn the truth we wish […]

Continue Reading >>

Why I Am No Longer a Creationist – Part 2

Filed in Denialism by Matt on January 15, 2016 • 0 Comments
Why I Am No Longer a Creationist – Part 2

In my last post I touched on three lines of evidence for evolution. It’s barely
an introduction, but I hope it will give some creationists a starting point. In
this post I’m going to respond to a few creationist objections and explain why
creationism isn’t a science. Common Objections What about all the scientists
who […]

Continue Reading >>

Why I Am No Longer a Creationist – Part 1

Filed in Denialism by Matt on January 14, 2016 • 0 Comments
Why I Am No Longer a Creationist – Part 1

After high school, I was an evangelical Christian living in the Midwestern
United States. So naturally, I was also a young earth creationist. I regarded
evolution as a fairy tale for grownups and was baffled that so many people fell
for it. How could anyone believe simple molecules evolved into the complex
brains we have […]

Continue Reading >>

Christianity: A Relationship Built On Threats

Filed in Christianity, God by Matt on January 8, 2016 • 12 Comments
Christianity: A Relationship Built On Threats

I want to tell you about a woman named Katrina. She’s cute, kind, intelligent,
and has a successful career as the manager of a restaurant. Although she’s
enjoyed the single life, she just turned thirty and is thinking about settling
down. The problem is, she hasn’t found the right guy. One day she was helping
[…]

Continue Reading >>

Why Does God Need Men To Do His Killing For Him?

Filed in Christianity, God by Matt on October 25, 2015 • 0 Comments
Why Does God Need Men To Do His Killing For Him?

One of the most common debates between Christians and atheists is whether
Yahweh is evil for ordering the slaughter of the Canaanites. For those who
aren’t familiar with this story, here’s a quick summary. After the Jews escaped
from Egypt, Yahweh ordered them to kill all the clans living in the land of
Canaan. And […]

Continue Reading >>

Christian Music Sucks

Filed in Christianity by Matt on October 15, 2015 • 0 Comments
Christian Music Sucks

Jesus Jargon My wife and I have a road trip game called “Jesus Jargon.” Here’s
how it works. First, find a Christian music station. They’re usually somewhere
in the 80’s on the FM dial, and they’re easy to identify by that clean, dull,
generic Christian music sound. When a song starts, everyone says what word […]

Continue Reading >>

What Do You Mean I’m Not An Atheist?

Filed in Atheism, God by Matt on June 1, 2015 • 5 Comments
What Do You Mean I’m Not An Atheist?

I recently came across yet another article that claims atheists don’t really
exist. This is a very common argument among Christians. To them, the existence
of god is so obvious that they simply can’t grasp the concept of not believing.
So the only explanation that makes sense to them is that we’re in denial.
Here’s […]

Continue Reading >>

Temporary Hiatus (Sort Of)

Filed in Uncategorized by Matt on April 7, 2015 • 1 Comment
Temporary Hiatus (Sort Of)

I want to let my readers know that I’m taking a temporary hiatus (sort of).
Southern Skeptic is not my full-time job, and I’m a stay-at-home dad with one
son and another son on the way, so I don’t have a lot of spare time. If I
worked a regular 9-5 job, I would probably […]

Continue Reading >>

Heaven ISN’T For Real

Filed in Christianity, God by Matt on March 26, 2015 • 9 Comments
Heaven ISN’T For Real

Although Christians are confident they will spend all of eternity in Heaven,
many of them don’t seem to give it much thought. This is very strange to me. If
Heaven is forever, then Christians will spend virtually all of their existence
there. In fact, their time on Earth will seem like a blink at the […]

Continue Reading >>

Excuses, Excuses

Filed in Atheism, God by Matt on March 21, 2015 • 3 Comments
Excuses, Excuses

Sometimes I get into mini-debates with Christians on Twitter and Google+. I
probably shouldn’t even bother, but I’m fascinated by the way Christians think.
Especially since I used to be one of them. They actually believe they’re making
good points, but what they’re really doing is making terrible excuses. Here’s
how some of my mini-debates […]

Continue Reading >>

Next Page >>
[Enter Search Terms][search]
Sponsors

Like me on Facebook

Follow me on Twitter

My Tweets

Find me on Google Plus

Categories

Atheism
Christianity
Conspiracies
Denialism
God
Skepticism

My Favorite Sites

Atheist Nerd Girl
Atheist Revolution
Barrier Breaker
Cross Examined
Daylight Atheism
Evil Bible
Ex-Christian
Ex-Communications
Friendly Atheist
Godless in Dixie
Godless Mom
Rational Wiki
The Logic Of Science

Archives

January 2016
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014

Other Links

Disqus
Gravatar
Reddit
RSS Feed

(C) 2016 Southern Skeptic. All rights reserved. Theme by Solostream.
