logo

  • Video favorites

  • Home
  • What is Humanism?
  • Who are we?
  • What Do We Do?
  • Ward’s Blog
  • Alabama Same Sex Marriage Ministers

[                    ]
Huntsville Humanist Celebrant Louise Hardin conducts an outdoor weddingPink
DogwoodSome HumanistsCouple holds handsShef CeremonyWedding in a wood near a
waterfall

  • Our Events
  • Other Events
  • Inspirational

  • Humanists of North Alabama News! 2016-01-07

    Humanists of North Alabama News! 2016-01-07

    “Amidst the worldly comings and goings, observe how endings become
    beginnings.
    – Laozi (Lao Tzu)

    Note: Location – location – location. Please note that events are in
    different locations this year. We continue to search for meeting space.
    Suggestions welcome.

    Upcoming events:
    • Sunday, January 17: 2:00 – 3:30 pm: Monthly meeting at Huntsville Public
    Library on Monroe, room A/B (to the right of the lobby). Enjoy tea, coffee
    and light snacks.

    o Our January theme, from Steven Pinker’s suggestion below, will be a
    refresher on The Enlightenment. We’re asking everyone to devote five
    minutes to recommending a favorite philosophy or philosopher of or
    preceding the eighteenth century, anyone from Francis Bacon to Thomas
    Paine.

    Steven Pinker, in Jan-Feb 2016 “The Humanist” said: “Humanism has to
    transcend its high-school-chess-club image and identify itself with larger
    historic and global movements that people are sympathetic to but don’t
    identify as “humanistic” — the European Enlightenment, the Universal
    Declaration of Human Rights, classical liberalism, the scientific
    worldview, and human rights movements worldwide.”

    o At the February 21 monthly meeting, Gary Gunnels, scholar and NAFA
    member, following the theme, will speak on “What is classical liberalism?”
    with discussion afterward.

    • Sunday, January 24: 2:00- 4:00 pm: Book Discussion Group, meeting on the
    4th Sunday of each month from 2:00-4:00 pm. at TBD. New discussion
    participants always welcomed! Please join us.
    o This month we meet in room C at the main Huntsville library on Monroe St.
    We will be discussing, “The Righteous Mind: Why Good People are Divided by
    Religion and Politics,” by Jonathan Haidt. June Norton has volunteered to
    lead the discussion. A brief book review:
    As America descends deeper into polarization and paralysis, social
    psychologist Jonathan Haidt has done the seemingly impossible—challenged
    conventional thinking about morality, politics, and religion in a way that
    speaks to everyone on the political spectrum. Drawing on his twenty five
    years of groundbreaking research on moral psychology, he shows how moral
    judgments arise not from reason but from gut feelings. He shows why
    liberals, conservatives, and libertarians have such different intuitions
    about right and wrong, and he shows why each side is actually right about
    many of its central concerns. In this subtle yet accessible book, Haidt
    gives you the key to understanding the miracle of human cooperation, as
    well as the curse of our eternal divisions and conflicts. If you’re ready
    to trade in anger for understanding, read The Righteous Mind.

    • Monday, January 25, 6:00-7:30pm: Philosophy Café. Open discussion on
    philosophical topics continues on the fourth Monday of each month in the
    upstairs room of “A Cup of Everything” at 103 Northside Square. An
    assortment of sandwiches, snacks and beverages are available for purchase
    (and to lubricate discussion). New faces are always welcome!

    Our events can be found
    • on our Meetup group:

    Humanists of North Alabama Meetup

    Huntsville, AL
    247 Humanists

    [600_280008]
    Meet with fellow Humanists: those that follow the progressive philosophy of
    life that, without theism and other supernatural beliefs, affirms our
    ability and responsibility to…

    Check out this Meetup Group →

    • on our FaceBook page:
    https://www.facebook.com/pages/Humanists-of-North-Alabama/258854664128349
    • on our web page:
    http://www.humanistsofnorthalabama.org/
    Other community events:
    MAAF Redstone (Military Association of Atheists and Freethinkers) affiliate
    group
    • MAAF Redstone is for active duty military, veterans, spouses and
    supportive civilians. Join the conversation on Meetup at http://
    www.meetup.com/MAAF-Redstone-Meetup/ or join the closed group on MAAF
    Redstone Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/groups/305467142954231/
    NAFA: North Alabama Freethought Association:
    (see their Meetup page at http://www.meetup.com/thenafa/ for changes and
    cancellations)

    • 3rd Friday of each month at 7:00 PM – NAFA dinner at Casa Blanca at Main
    Street South Center (7500 Memorial Pkwy SW # 115A, Huntsville, AL phone:
    (256) 213-9979)
    • Every Saturday at 10:00 am to noon – Coffee at Angel’s Island Coffee,
    7538 Memorial Pkwy SW, Huntsville, AL
    • Every Sunday at 10:00 am to noon – Coffee at Bruegger’s Bagel Bakery, 347
    Hughes Rd, Madison, AL
    • 2nd Friday of the month is usually Movie Night

    If you received this email from a friend and want to be added to the
    distribution list, send an email to me at louise.hardin@gmail.com.

    Suggestions for events, meeting venues, topics are always welcome!

    Humanists of North Alabama is an official Chapter of the American Humanist
    Association. Membership in the AHA is strongly encouraged!

    Louise Hardin
    256-683-8026

    —————–
    Every morning, when we wake up, we have twenty-four brand-new hours to
    live. What a precious gift! We have the capacity to live in a way that
    these twenty-four hours will bring peace, joy, and happiness to ourselves
    and others.

    – Thich Nhat Hanh

  • Humanists of North Alabama News! 2015-12-02

    Humanists of North Alabama News! 2015-12-02

    “The things you really need are few and easy to come by; but the things you
    can imagine you need are infinite, and you will never be satisfied.” –
    Epicurus, Principal Doctrines, C300 BCE

    Note: I have been informed that the Women’s Center may not be available for
    meetings next year. Please let me know of any available spaces.

     

    Upcoming events:

    We don’t have any formal events scheduled in December. Due to my vacation
    schedule, the Hardins cannot host a Solstice event this year. If you would
    like to host a Solstice event, let me know and I can assist you in
    distributing the information thorough email, FaceBook and Meetup. Contact
    Travis Hardin if you are interested in attending an informal potluck on
    December 25.

      □ Sunday, January 17: 2:00 – 3:30 pm: Monthly meeting at TBD. Enjoy tea,
        coffee and light snacks. Topics decided by attendees!

     

      □ Sunday, January 24: 2:00- 4:00 pm: Book Discussion Group, meeting on
        the 4th Sunday of each month from 2:00-4:00 pm. at TBD. New discussion
        participants always welcomed! Please join us.
          ☆ Our first book selection for the upcoming year is, “The Righteous
            Mind: Why Good People are Divided by Religion and Politics,” by
            Jonathan Haidt. June Norton has volunteered to lead the discussion!
          ☆ 
      □ Monday, January 25, 6:00-7:30pm: Philosophy Café. Open discussion on
        philosophical topics continues on the fourth Monday of each month in
        the upstairs room of “A Cup of Everything” at 103 Northside Square. An
        assortment of sandwiches, snacks and beverages are available for
        purchase (and to lubricate discussion). New faces are always welcome!

     

    Our events can be found

      □ on our Meetup group:

    http://www.meetup.com/Humanists-of-North-Alabama-Meetup/

      □ on our FaceBook page:
        https://www.facebook.com/pages/Humanists-of-North-Alabama/
        258854664128349
      □ on our web page:
        http://www.humanistsofnorthalabama.org/

     

     

    Other community events:

     

     

    MAAF Redstone (Military Association of Atheists and Freethinkers) affiliate
    group

      □ MAAF Redstone is for active duty military, veterans, spouses and
        supportive civilians. Join the conversation on Meetup at http://
        www.meetup.com/MAAF-Redstone-Meetup/ or join the closed group on MAAF
        Redstone Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/groups/305467142954231/

     

     

    NAFA: North Alabama Freethought Association:
    (see their Meetup page at http://www.meetup.com/thenafa/ for changes and
    cancellations)

     

      □ 3^rd Friday of each month at 7:00 PM – NAFA dinner at Casa Blanca at
        Main Street South Center (7500 Memorial Pkwy SW # 115A, Huntsville, AL
        phone: (256) 213-9979)
      □ Every Saturday at 10:00 am to noon – Coffee at Angel’s Island Coffee,
        7538 Memorial Pkwy SW, Huntsville, AL
      □ Every Sunday at 10:00 am to noon – Coffee at Bruegger’s Bagel Bakery,
        347 Hughes Rd, Madison, AL
      □ 2^nd Friday of the month is usually Movie Night

     

    If you received this email from a friend and want to be added to the
    distribution list, send an email to me at louise.hardin@gmail.com.

     

    Suggestions for events, meeting venues, topics are always welcome!

     

    Humanists of North Alabama is an official Chapter of the American Humanist
    Association. Membership in the AHA is strongly encouraged!

     

    Louise Hardin

    256-683-8026

     

    —————–

    “Just as the sun does not wait for prayers and incantations to persuade it
    to rise, but shines anyway and is universally loved, so you should not wait
    for applause and praise in order to do good; but be a voluntary benefactor
    and you will be beloved like the sun.” – Epictetus, 1st Century CE

  • Book Discussion Group begins 4th Sun. in January, 2-4pm

    From Rose E. Deverzly:
    The Humanist’s of North Alabama is starting a new book discussion group in
    January. We will meet on the 4th Sunday of each month from 2:00-4:00 pm. We
    will be meeting at the Crestwood Women’s Center (behind Starbucks on
    Airport road). The book selection for January 25th: The New Jim Crow: Mass
    Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness, by Michelle Alexander The
    Huntsville Library system appears to have two or three copies available.
    The book selection for February 22nd: A Call to Action: Women, Religion,
    Violence, and Power, by Jimmy Carter The Huntsville Library system appears
    to have two copies available. I chose the first two books to get the group
    started and we can group select subsequent selections. I would like to keep
    the focus on current issues. However, we can also choose relevant fiction
    books along with other humanist and secular books. I’m looking forward to
    trying to see if we can get this group populated and going! I’m also
    sharing this with the North Alabama Freethought Association. I will post
    some suggested guidelines for conducting the discussions in another post.
    Just so that everyone has an opportunity to express their thoughts and
    opinions, and be listened to respectfully. And, to make sure that everyone
    has an opportunity to participate!
    rose.deverzley@gmail.com
    posted by Travis Hardin
   
Ask-an-Atheist newspaper article in Huntsville Times

http://www.al.com/living/index.ssf/2015/04/ask_an_atheist_huntsville.html

Supreme Court rules gay couples nationwide have a right to marry

http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/
gay-marriage-and-other-major-rulings-at-the-supreme-court/2015/06/25/
ef75a120-1b6d-11e5-bd7f-4611a60dd8e5_story.html?tid=magnet

Couples looking for an Alabama wedding officiant — please consult our list on
this site.

 

2015 Humanist Conference May 7-10, Denver

http://conference.americanhumanist.org/

Children raised secular are moral. Not news to us.

http://www.latimes.com/opinion/op-ed/
la-oe-0115-zuckerman-secular-parenting-20150115-story.html

Secular invocations program

Humanist Group Launches Secular Invocations Program in Response to Supreme
CourtRuling

 

For Immediate Release

 

Contact:

 

Merrill Miller, merrillmiller@americanhumanist.org, 202-238-9088 ext. 105

 

Monica Miller, mmiller@americanhumanist.org, 202-238-9088 ext. 120

 

(Washington, DC, May 5, 2014)—In response to today’s U.S. Supreme Court ruling
in Town of Greece v. Galloway, which determined that legislative prayer does
not violate the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment, the American
Humanist Association announced a new program that will provide resources for
atheists and humanists to deliver secular invocations during legislative
meetings.

 

The Supreme Court’s ruling, authored by Justice Kennedy, makes clear that local
governments must make “reasonable efforts to identify all of the congregations
located within its borders” and welcome an invocation by anyone who wishes to
give one, regardless of their faith. The majority decision also states that the
policy must be one of nondiscrimination.  The opinion adds that the invocations
must not “denigrate nonbelievers or religious minorities, threaten damnation,
or preach conversion.”

 

The Humanist Society, an adjunct of the American Humanist Association, just
launched as a platform for humanists to be identified within local government
borders so that they can offer secular invocations pursuant to a legislative
prayer practice. The website provides sample secular invocations and an
interactive map to find a humanist who can deliver an invocation in one’s local
area. Though this is a new program, there are already 50 individuals approved
to give secular invocations, and the program is actively seeking to bolster
this number.

 

“Non-religious people are often asked to contribute to a ceremonial event, but
some struggle to find an alternative to religious wording,” said Roy
Speckhardt, executive director of the American Humanist Association. “We want
to make it easier for anyone who wants to give a secular invocation so that
legislative meetings can be nondiscriminatory.”

 

Monica Miller, attorney for the American Humanist Association’s Appignani
Humanist Legal Center, said, “While we would have preferred the Supreme Court
to rule against any kind of prayer during government meetings by overruling the
1983 Marsh v. Chambers decision, the Supreme Court’s ruling emphasizes that
local governments must be inclusive in their prayer policies, meaning that
humanists must be allowed to deliver secular invocations whenever a government
allows citizens of other faiths to deliver prayers at its meetings.”

 

###

 

Founded in 1941 and headquartered in Washington, DC, the American Humanist
Association (AHA) works to protect the rights of humanists, atheists, and other
non-religious Americans. The AHA advances the ethical and life-affirming
philosophy of humanism, which—without beliefs in any gods or other supernatural
forces—encourages individuals to live informed and meaningful lives that aspire
to the greater good of humanity.

 

Special thanks to the Louis J. Appignani Foundation for their support of the
Appignani Humanist Legal Center.

About the AHA

The American Humanist Association, founded in 1941 and located in Washington
DC, strives to bring about a progressive society where being “good without
god” is an accepted way to live life. We accomplish this through our defense
of civil liberties and secular governance, by our outreach to the growing
number of people without religious belief, and through a continued refinement
and advancement of the humanist worldview. Read more about the AHA here.

American Humanist Association | 1777 T Street NW, Washington DC, 20009 |
800.837.3792 | If you no longer wish to receive e-mails from us, click here to
unsubscribe | Privacy Policy

Sir Julian Huxley:

"Today the god hypothesis has ceased to be scientifically tenable...and its
abandonment often brings a deep sense of relief... Once our relief at
jettisoning an outdated piece of ideological furniture is over, [then] we must
construct something to take its place."

Recent Posts

  • Humanists of North Alabama News! 2016-01-07
  • Humanists of North Alabama News! 2015-12-02
  • Supreme Court rules gay couples nationwide have a right to marry
  • Ask-an-Atheist newspaper article in Huntsville Times
  • 2015 Humanist Conference May 7-10, Denver

Archives

Archives [Select Month ]

Spam Blocked

17 spam blocked by Akismet
Humanists of North Alabama | Promote Your Page Too
[2588546641]

Recent Posts

  • Humanists of North Alabama News! 2016-01-07
  • Humanists of North Alabama News! 2015-12-02
  • Supreme Court rules gay couples nationwide have a right to marry
  • Ask-an-Atheist newspaper article in Huntsville Times
  • 2015 Humanist Conference May 7-10, Denver

RSS "This site’s RSS feed"

  • Humanists of North Alabama News! 2016-01-07 January 8, 2016
  • Humanists of North Alabama News! 2015-12-02 December 3, 2015
  • Supreme Court rules gay couples nationwide have a right to marry June 26,
    2015

Blogroll

  • Friendly Atheist
  • Greta Christina
  • PZ Myers
  • RNS – Religion News Service

Organizations

  • American Atheists
  • American Humanist Association
  • Freedom From Religion Foundation
  • Humanists of the Shoals
  • Huntsville Area Friends Meeting
  • North Alabama Freethought Association
  • Secular Coalition of Alabama
  • Skeptical Inquirer magazine

Home

close window

Videos

Videos We Like

—– Live March 30, 2013 —–

ASU Origins — The Storytelling of Science     1:30

The Storytelling of Science — part 2 or 2 — audience questions and answers

The Origins Project at ASU presents the final night in the Origins Stories
weekend, focusing on the science of storytelling and the storytelling of
science. The Storytelling of Science features a panel of esteemed scientists,
public intellectuals, and award-winning writers including well-known science
educator Bill Nye, astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson, evolutionary biologist
Richard Dawkins, theoretical physicist Brian Greene, Science Friday’s Ira
Flatow, popular science fiction writer Neal Stephenson, executive director of
the World Science Festival Tracy Day, and Origins Project director Lawrence
Krauss as they discuss the stories behind cutting edge science from the origin
of the universe to a discussion of exciting technologies that will change our
future. They demonstrate how to convey the excitement of science and the
importance helping promote a public understanding of science.

Video by Black Chalk Productions

Get the most recent updates from the Origins Project by following us on
Facebook /ASUOriginsProject and Twitter @asuORIGINS. Contact
origins.project@asu.eduwith questions.  (from YouTube)

