[header1000]

  • Home
  • Upcoming Events
  • Past Events
  • Newsletter
  • FAQs
  • Membership
  • Support HSGP
  • Links
  • Affiliations
  • Contact Us

[HCC_Feb201]
Humanist Community Center
627 W. Rio Salado Parkway Mesa, AZ 85201
Map to the Humanist Community Center

WELCOME

HSGP is a warm and welcoming community of humanists, atheists, agnostics,
free-thinkers, and non-theists of all types. The group aims to enrich the lives
of any who join us through explorations in science, philosophy, history, and
the arts.

We are primarily an educational organization, providing bi-monthly lectures by
experts in various fields; opportunities for intellectual discourse over books,
arts, and specific discussion topics; and social events such as game nights,
potlucks, and special celebrations through the year. Our members have diverse
and passionate interests in topics such as separation of church and state,
evolution, technology, and environmental issues.

Our community is oriented toward Secular Humanism and provides like-minded
individuals the opportunity to share in educational and social activities. We
have a playroom and a family bathroom as well as children’s programs, so
parents are welcome to bring their children. Please consider joining us, for
events that interest you, or as a member of our growing community.

About Humanism (from the American Humanist Association)
Humanism is a progressive philosophy of life that, without theism and other
supernatural beliefs, affirms our ability and responsibility to lead ethical
lives of personal fulfillment that aspire to the greater good of humanity.

Sunday Speakers Program

The Humanist Society of Greater Phoenix meets twice a month (not quite the same
as every other week) on Sunday mornings. Meetings are free and open to anyone
who is interested in learning more about Humanism or the speaker's topic.

Doors open at 9:00 AM. We begin by enjoying the company of our fellow Humanists
over coffee and breakfast. The program begins at 10:00 AM, when we share
announcements and then hear from a guest speaker. Our post-lecture discussions
usually end by 11:30, when we invite members and guests to participate in light
clean-up chores.

We do not yet have childcare available for every meeting, but our center has a
pleasant Kid's room, and members of the community often cooperate to maximize
the number of adults who are able to attend the meeting.

Breakfast

At our regular Sunday meetings, breakfast is available for a donation of $5.00
or $1.00 for coffee only. Whether you are just coming to hear the speaker or
wish to have coffee or breakfast as well, please check in at the welcome desk
by the entrance door. Of course, other donations are always gratefully
accepted.

Volunteer to help keep our Breakfast Program going! You can volunteer for
something easy or you can volunteer for multiple tasks. You can also volunteer
for future events. For instructions on how to do that, see the section below
entitled "VOLUNTEERING"

For your convenience, the membership desk is immediately behind the welcome
desk at each Sunday meeting. Stop by to join or renew your membership in HSGP,
or to update your records such as your email address.

VOLUNTEERING

Volunteering is fun and easy. We need volunteers to help us keep HSGP
successful at all of the wonderful things that we do so please consider
volunteering! To do that, just follow the instructions below.

First, click on the "Sign Up" button below. The Access Code (password) is
routinely sent out in meeting notices (please save the password) but if you
have forgotten it, or need help with SignUp Genius, just send an email to
hsgpvolunteer@gmail.com and we'll get back to you as quickly as possible. Then
select the event type that you want to volunteer for. The first thing that you
will see is a description of the volunteer opportunities with some fair amount
of detail. Scroll down from there to the table and be sure to select the
correct date for the event that you are volunteering for. Select whatever
opportunity that you want and click the box. Finally, click on the "Submit and
Sign Up" button at the bottom.

Sign Up Now!

Our Mission: To foster the secular humanist community and advocate for humanist
values in Greater Phoenix.
HSGP Programs

Speakers

  • How to Request a Speaker Video
  • Upcoming Speakers
  • Past Speakers

Upcoming Events

  • Inquiring Minds discussion group
  • Book Club
  • Humanities Project
  • Children's Program
  • Service Outreach
  • TED Talks and discussion

All Past Events

Upcoming Topics and Events
Jan 23rd
Sat
The Decline and Fall of Practically Everybody by Will Cuppy
Event: Book Club
Jan 24th
Sun
Privatization: Boon or Bane?
Speaker: Dianne Post
Feb 03rd
Wed
Topics chosen by attendees
Event: TED Video and Interesting Topic Discussion Group
Feb 06th
Sat
To be determined
Event: Inquiring Minds Discussion Group
Feb 07th
Sun
The Origins of Life
Speaker: Richard Miller
Feb 12th
Fri
4th Annual Chocolate, Wine & Poetry Fest
Event: Humanities Project Monthly Cultural Presentation & Meeting
Show all upcoming topics and events

The Humanist Society of Greater Phoenix is open to presentations on a variety
of topics, many of which are controversial. Please note that the opinions
expressed by our guest speakers do not necessarily reflect the viewpoint or
philosophy of HSGP.

Privacy policy
HSGP Supports Tumbleweed Center

[smtumble]


We make monthly donations of food, clothing, and other basic necessities in
support of at-risk youth.

Tumbleweed's Mission is "to serve abused, abandoned, troubled, and neglected
youth in our community."

Tumbleweed Center for Youth Development, established in 1972, touches the lives
of over 3,000 youth (ages 11 to 22) in Maricopa County annually. They provide
emergency shelter, transitional housing, skills development, counseling,
education, and other services to develop at-risk youth into self-reliant
adults.

Website: Tumbleweed Center
Contact Us:
Humanist Society of Greater Phoenix
P.O. Box 15112, Mesa, AZ 85211-3112
Phone: 480-844-5044
Email: humanist@hsgp.org
HSGP is an Educational Organization rooted in the values of Secular Humanism.

Our speakers' program and various discussion forums are open to all who want to
keep their minds stimulated or wish to explore a topic of interest with other
Humanists. We demonstrate the people-centric values of Humanism by being a
positive influence in the community. We do this through our meetings and
lectures (free to the public); community service, such as our support of
Tumbleweed Center for Youth Development and the work they do for at-risk youth;
and networking with students at campuses throughout Maricopa County to
encourage debates and humanistic activities. We affiliate with other groups
(including the Freedom from Religion Foundation and Secular Coalition for
Arizona) that work to preserve separation of church and state and thereby
protecting individual rights.

Our Membership is drawn from a cross section of the Greater Phoenix area.
Members range in age from early 20s to 90+, with backgrounds from many
professions and walks of life. The only requirement for membership is interest
in the principles of Humanism. Participation can be limited to simply attending
meetings, or becoming actively involved in projects.

HSGP is an educational non-profit organization. All dues and donations are
deductible for income tax purposes.
[meetup100]
[blog]
[facebook]
[AHAman]
[Humanist-h]
[HCPlogo2]
[IHEU75]

  • Home
  • Upcoming Events
  • Past Events
  • Newsletter
  • FAQs
  • Membership
  • Support HSGP
  • Links
  • Affiliations
  • Contact Us

