  Universal Pantheist Society     

  • Home
  • What is Pantheism?
  • Key Ideas
  • About Us
  • On-Line Community
      □ Universal Pantheist Society On-Line Network
  • Join Us!
      □ Membership Application Form
      □ Member Dues Payment
  • Bookstore
      □ Reading List
  • Our Publications
      □ Pantheist Vision - Quarterly >
          ☆ Earth is Our Real Body
          ☆ Pantheism: The Religion of Science
          ☆ The Practice of Pantheist Mindfulness
      □ The Pantheist World View
      □ Devotion to Truth
      □ Earthkeeping
      □ God and Belief - The Pantheist Alternative
      □ Pantheism and Panentheism
      □ More Publications
  • Contact Us

Welcome to the Universal Pantheist Society

    We seek renewed reverence for the Earth and a vision of Nature as the
    ultimate context for human existence...

Are You a Pantheist?

Pantheists are persons who derive their fundamental religious
experience through their personal relationship with the Universe. They
feel that Nature is the ultimate context for human existence, and seek
to improve their relationship with the natural world as their
fundamental religious responsibility.

Pantheists see their personal religion as a system of reverent behavior
toward the Earth rather than subscription to a particular creed.
Because Pantheists identify God with Nature rather than an              Picture
anthropomorphic being, Pantheists oppose the arrogant world-view of
anthropocentrism.

This web site contains a collection of materials about Pantheism and
Pantheists sponsored by the Universal Pantheist Society, an
organization which since 1975 has provided a network for Pantheists. In
Universal Pantheism, there is no creed or requirements to follow any
particular belief or practices; rather we seek to provide ways for
individuals to promote their own spiritual growth and understanding.
Our goal is to provide Pantheism with a unified presence -- bringing
Pantheists of all varieties together to share in our commonality.


Our Online Community

   embed(http://  If you would like to join a pantheist community, the Universal
static.ning.com/  Pantheist Society offers an interactive on-line Network, an
socialnetworkmain inclusive social networking site for all varieties of
 /widgets/index/  pantheists, panentheists, religious naturalists, and other
swf/badge.swf?v=  like-minded folks. Our Online Network is an excellent place to
   201002091145)  meet other pantheists and share ideas, information on
                  celebratory practice, cosmic experience, and upcoming events.
 Join our Online  You are welcome to join our online network free of charge.
      Community!
                  When you are ready, if you would like to support the spread of
                  pantheism and unite with other Pantheists in full membership,
 Please join our  including subscription to our quarterly newsletter,Pantheist
       Universal  Vision, we invite you to join the Universal Pantheist Society.
       Pantheist  Learn more about how to join on our Membership page.
         Society  
 Networking Site  
                  

The Inner Source and Outer Aim of Pantheism

Pantheism is unique among modern religions in that it might be accurately
termed a "folk religion". It is a faith defined by its adherents -- it is not a
philosophy or a faith "founded" by any one person. Thus, we encourage all our
members to write their own statement of What Pantheism Means to Me. However,
this is not solipsism. Pantheism is a common thread through many traditions,
dating back thousands of years to indigenous peoples and to such writers as Lao
Tzu and Buddhist and HIndu philosophers. Western philosophy came to pantheism
philosophy through the works of such philosophers Baruch Spinoza and John
Toland. Later, the Romantic poets like Wordsorth, Shelly, Keats, and Goethe
celebrated a pantheist world view. Today, modern nature writers and
environmentalists often express a Pantheist outlook, such as Henry David
Thoreau, Joseph Wood Krutch, Rachael Carson, and David Brower. All aim their
object of spiritual veneration to Earth and the Universe, not to the
supernatural.


How We Celebrate Pantheism

Most Pantheists feel Nature is our church. Pantheists generally can't help
spending a lot of time in the out of doors, enjoying natural landscapes,
watching wildlife, or studying plants, fossils, rocks, or trees.  Pantheists
also tend to follow healthy eating and living practices, and express their
application of the universal "Golden Rule" to not only people but also to
protecting the Earth. Panthests have a rich literature of Pantheism, and even
numerous dates on the calendar which can be considered examples of pantheist
holidays.

"We seek a renewed reverence for the Earth and a vision of
Nature as the ultimate context for human existence..."
                                                             About Us |  
(C)  Copyright 1998-2015 Universal Pantheist Society         Contact Us   |  
                                                             Join

Photo used under Creative Commons from GollyGforce
Quantcast
✕
