Powered by bi^gtent.com

Cabot AR Freethinkers

[47203051_b]

Join us Today!

Email Address
[                    ]
[Resend Invitation]
Request a new invitation
Requirement for Membership

Members should be a resident of Cabot, AR, or within a short driving distance.

Join Group
Already a member? log in

Member Login

Email Address
[                    ]
Password
[                    ]
Log In
Forgot your password?

Not a member yet? sign up

Welcome to the Cabot Freethinkers!

Do you:
Live by the Golden Rule?
Consider yourself a free thinking individual?
Care to join a social community?
 
We are an organization of non-believers that will focus on:
Community Involvement
Social Events
Education and Information
Activism
 
Periodic events will be scheduled for the membership :
Presently there are no scheduled events, but our numbers are growing and I hope
to schedule an event soon.
 
All meetings will be held at a public place in Cabot. In addition to in-person
meetups, there will be an active online discussion forum for people to express
their ideas, challenge others, share information, or talk about anything that
is on their mind. The Cabot Freethinkers has no monthly dues at this time, and
no mandatory attendance.
 
Just like you, we are looking for like-minded people who have left dogma,
superstition and irrationality behind.
We would welcome you to the group.

Recent News

Announcements News

Cabot Freethinkers

1/29/2011 (5 yrs ago)
Greetings, April 19, 2011

The Cabot Freethinkers welcomes Skeptics, Humanists, Atheists
or people who might be on the fence.

I hope, if you find yourself in one of the above categories, you join
us.
We now have 9 members, and we will soon arrange a time and place for a
meeting.
I am considering the... read more >>
Greetings, April 19, 2011

The Cabot Freethinkers welcomes Skeptics, Humanists, Atheists
or people who might be on the fence.

I hope, if you find yourself in one of the above categories, you join us.
We now have 9 members, and we will soon arrange a time and place for a meeting.
I am considering the King Buffet across from Krogers.
But, we can meet at any location mutually agreed upon.
If you have a suggestion, please email me.

Our first couple of meetings will be informal, but I would like to discuss
people's opinions as to what they would like the group to do.

I envision the group as offering the opportunity for friendly social contact
with like minded people,
and at some later time to get involved with education and community service.

If you are like me and have several very good Christian friends, but find
yourself unable to
discuss certain subjects with them, this group will offer that opportunity.

I am a Board Member of the Arkansas Society of Freethinkers of Little Rock, and
it's a great group of people, but I thought forming a Cabot group would be fun
and make meetings more convenient for some.

If you will visit the Arkansas Society of Freethinker's MeetUp site, you will
get an idea of the vision I have for this group.
http://www.meetup.com/ARfreethinkers/

It doesn't cost anything to join, so why not sign up?
I look forward to meeting all of you soon.

Sincerely

George Sterpka << collapse
(C)2016 Cabot AR Freethinkers
Quantcast
