Jump to Navigation
World Pantheist Movement

Main menu

  • Join
      □ Renew
  • Support us
      □ Donate
      □ T-shirts, mugs, gifts
      □ Promote
          ☆ Leaflets
          ☆ Posters, Stickers, T-shirts
          ☆ Link to Us
          ☆ Printable Cards
          ☆ Talks
      □ Volunteer
  • Beliefs
      □ Beliefs of Naturalistic Pantheism
      □ WPM Statement of principles
      □ Elements of Pantheism book
      □ Pantheism as a way of life
      □ Pantheism, Atheism & other isms
          ☆ A Pantheist Glossary
          ☆ Take our top-rated quiz
          ☆ Agnosticism and Pantheism
          ☆ Atheism and Pantheism
          ☆ Earth Religions and Pantheism
          ☆ Naturalism and Pantheism
          ☆ Paganism and Pantheism
          ☆ Unitarian Universalism and Pantheism
      □ Members' voices
      □ Books on Pantheism
  • Practice
      □ Save Nature
      □ Natural Living
          ☆ Greenup Your Life
          ☆ Natural Death
      □ Social Issues
          ☆ Pantheism and Rights
          ☆ Religious Freedom
          ☆ Evolution Education
      □ Forms of celebration
          ☆ Natural Meditation
      □ Pantheist Calendar
      □ Pantheist Almanac
      □ Pantheist Art
  • Groups
      □ Online Communities
          ☆ Facebook Page
          ☆ Facebook discussion group
          ☆ Social network
      □ Local Groups
          ☆ Local groups network
          ☆ Map of local groups
      □ Find Pantheists Near You [Members Only]
      □ Interest groups
          ☆ Practical living
          ☆ Stages of Life
          ☆ Environment & Nature
          ☆ Causes and Issues
          ☆ Interests & Activities
      □ Start a group
      □ Unitarian Universalist groups
  • About us
      □ WPM FAQ's
          ☆ Why organize?
      □ Bylaws
      □ Documents
          ☆ Certificate of Incorporation
          ☆ Certificate of Good Standing
          ☆ Charity Status
          ☆ US Tax Status
          ☆ US Definitive Ruling
      □ Financials
          ☆ 2004-5 Accounts
          ☆ 2006-11 Accounts
  • Members
      □ Login
      □ Renew/Update
      □ Find members near you
      □ Access & password issues
      □ Guide to Member Services
          ☆ Online guide to resources

Is your spiritual home right here on Earth?

On this page

  • 1.Why you might like Scientific Pantheism
  • 2.Our basic principles
  • 3.Spiritual but not religious
  • 4.Closely allied beliefs

Do you feel a deep sense of peace, belonging, and wonder
in Nature or under a clear night sky? Do you respect the rights
not just of humans but of all living beings? Would you rather
save the planet than “save” your eternal soul? Do you
aim to make the most and best of your one life here?
Do you value science and reason over adherence to ancient scriptures?
Then you are probably a scientific pantheist.
Take our quiz to find out

The beauty of nature on display at a clear mountain lake

Why you might like Scientific Pantheism

Atheism and agnosticism are great as starting points, but each defines itself
negatively, in relation to a belief in "God" that it denies or doubts.
Scientific pantheism moves beyond "God" and defines itself by positives. We
take Nature and the Universe as our start and finish point, not some religions'
preconceived idea of “God.” We relate closely to some of the central challenges
of our era.
At a time when the balance of our Earth is under unprecedented threat,
scientific pantheism is one of the few forms of spirituality in which Nature
plays a fundamental part. For us, Nature is a source of peace and beauty, as
well as the focus for our care and vigilance. Nature was not created for us to
use or abuse. Nature created us, we are an inseparable part of her. We have a
duty to live sustainably, care for Nature and to halt and reverse the harm that
humans have done to her.
Scientific pantheism is the only form of spirituality we know of which fully
embraces science as part of the human exploration of Earth and Cosmos. It
embraces the picture of a vast, creative and often violent Universe revealed by
the Hubble Space Telescope. It opposes climate change denial and evolution
denial. We regard stargazing as a spiritual practice.
Scientific pantheism has a joyous affirmative approach to life. It has a
healthy and positive attitude to sex and life in the body. We won’t tell you
what you should be smoking, or doing in the bedroom. We fully accept diverse
gender choices, and we oppose all forms of discrimination.

Millions of diverse species inhabit our planet's earth, sea, and sky

Our basic principles

Our beliefs and values are summarized in our Pantheist Statement of Principles.
The statement was drawn up by fallible humans. It is not required dogma –  it
is simply a notice on our door, to show what we are about so people can decide
if it suits them or not. These are the key elements:

  • Reverence, awe, wonder and a feeling of belonging to Nature and the wider
    Universe .
  • Respect and active care for the rights of all humans and other living
    beings.
  • Celebration of our lives in our bodies on this beautiful earth as a joy and
    a privilege.
  • Strong naturalism – without belief in supernatural realms, afterlives,
    beings or forces.
  • Respect for reason, evidence and the scientific method as our best ways of
    understanding nature and the Cosmos.
  • Promotion of non-discrimination, religious tolerance, freedom of and from
    religion and complete separation of state and religion.

Get the Pantheism handbook.

Pantheism acknowledges the deep experiences in a wide variety of activities.

Spiritual but not religious

Many people feel the need to belong to a religious community. Research shows
that such groups provide mutual support and friends and are good for physical
and mental health. There’s no good reason why groups of like-minded
non-theistic folk should not enjoy similar benefits.
In the WPM we are spiritual but not religious. We don’t have churches, priests,
or prescribed dogma and rituals.
But we do aim to provide a “home base” for people who love Nature and the
Universe and do not believe in supernatural entities.
Two of the major benefits our members and friends say they value are gaining
new like-minded friends and finding a place where they can share their
enthusiasms without fear of being ostracized or feeling isolated.
There have been many local meetings of members across the USA and in other
parts of the world, where people have found a rare level of fellowship and
stimulation.
The WPM’s short term goals are to:

  • Promote the values of environmental concern and human and animal rights.
  • Make earth-honoring life-affirming naturalistic beliefs widely available as
    a rational alternative to supernatural and theistic religions.
  • Promote forums for these beliefs and values on various Internet channels
    and other media.
  • Encourage local gatherings by providing fora for networking.

In the longer term, as resources permit, we hope to:

  • Build up numbers of members and friends in localities and promote the
    formation of longer-lasting local groups
  • Create a network of civil celebrants for Nature and life-oriented child
    dedications, weddings, and funerals
  • Sponsor Nature conservation activities and help members to conserve Nature
  • Actively address other issues such as women’s rights, animal rights,
    science education including evolution and climate change, drug laws, dark
    skies, and more.

If you share these ideals, becoming a WPM member and/or volunteering are the
best ways to help promote them.
Whether you join or not, you are welcome to join our Facebook page (with more
than 130,000 fans), or our Facebook discussion group with more than 9,000
members.

Pantheism is compatible with a wide variety of perspectives

Closely allied beliefs

We use the name pantheism because it has a long and venerable history dating
back to Heraclitus and Marcus Aurelius and extending to Einstein, D. H.
Lawrence and beyond.
Our beliefs (see the Statement of Principles) are entirely compatible with
atheism, humanism, agnosticism, universalism, and paganism viewing magic, gods
and spirits as symbols rather than objective realities. Most of us avoid
"god-language" or religious words like church, worship, divinity and so on
because we regard it as misleading. Those who do use it do so metaphorically.
We offer a home to all forms of naturalistic spirituality however you may
choose to label them. Other paths that approximate include philosophical
Taoism, modern Stoicism, Western forms of Buddhism that celebrate Nature and
daily life without supernatural beliefs, and Unitarian Universalists who do not
believe in supernatural beings.
You are free to adopt the terms and practices you prefer and draw on other
traditions for inspiration or celebration. Some call this a religion (a
positive one), while others call it a philosophy, a way of life, or a form of
general spirituality. It’s up to you.
Please explore our pages. If you have any questions, please contact us.

Pantheism Handbook
Elements of Pantheism by Paul Harrison
Take Our Quiz
Are you Pantheist? Atheist? Agnostic? Deist? Pagan? 125,000 people took our
quizzes. Try one!
T-shirts, gifts etc
WPM gifts
Media Interviews
Godspeed Inst (60 mins)
Spiritually Raw (start @14:58)
Honorary advisors
Helen Caldicott, Nobel Peace Prize nominee
Patricia Churchland, Neuroscientist and philosopher, UC San Diego
Ursula Goodenough, President,  Institute on Religion in an Age of Science
(1992-96)
James Lovelock, Originator of the Gaia Theory
Irene Pepperberg, Author of the Alex (parrot) studies
Michael Shermer, Founder of the Skeptics Society
Jeremy Stone, President, Federation of American Scientists (1970-2000)
David Suzuki, Canada's top science/nature broadcaster
 
President
Paul Harrison,
UN Environment Programme
More about our directors

Green up your life

Social Media
Facebook Main Page
Facebook Discussion Group
Twitter
Sign the Earth Pledge
Become a WPM Member
Youtube Channel
Translate page

Join the World Pantheist Movement
© 1997-2014 World Pantheist Movement | Privacy | Sitemap | Contact Us
Powered by Drupal
