Freethought Alliance

Supporting Science, Reason and the Separation of Church and State
[logo-new1]
Skip to content

  • Welcome
      □ About Us
      □ Join our email list
  • Annual Conference
      □ Speakers – 2015
      □ Speakers – 2014
      □ Registration
      □ Schedule
      □ Hotel
      □ Streaming of Conference
      □ Sponsor a Student
      □ DVDs
      □ Flyer
      □ Roommate and carpool sharing
      □ Photos from our 2011 conference
  • OC Sunday Assembly
  • Secular Gazette
  • Backyard Skeptics
  • Video Streaming
  • Donate
      □ Donate
      □ Why donate?

Welcome

[newlogo21]

The Orange County Freethought Alliance 2015 conference was a great success,  It
was a sell-out crowd and an enlightning event.   We hope to see you in 2016!
 Watch the conference soon to be available On-Demand video HERE with a $5
donation.

Freethought Alliance (FTA) is a 501(c) 3 organization which holds conferences,
debates and other secular events in the southern California area. FTA networks
with 26 local secular groups in the southern California from San Diego to
Fresno to Santa Barbara by sharing information about major secular events in
the area.  These groups are all independent and are part of the FTA only in the
social networking arena. Backyard Skeptics is the only group under the
Freethought Alliance non-profit 501(C)3 status.

[phone-dump7-14-13-139-300x225]

At our 2013 conference.

Why was FTA created? There are many paths to religious enlightenment –
Christianity, Judaism, Hinduism, Islam, and many others. Some of these
religions could be described as worshiping the same god, and some clearly
can’t. But when it comes to the non-religious, there are also different paths
people are taking with their lives: atheists, agnostics, skeptics, humanists,
naturalists, and others. But are they really following a different path? Or is
it really the same path with different names? Each of these groups is looking
at the world through thelenses of critical thinking, rationality, and science,
and excluding from their livesthe influences of mysticism, superstition,
pseudo-science and all else that can not be proven by scientific inquiry.

The Freethought Alliance has been created as a way to bring all such people
together under a single umbrella to support the secular community.

Our mission: To offer a place for people of non-belief to gather, discuss
cultural
and political issues and to improve the quality of life for the non-religious
as well as others.  And to promote dialogue between the religious and
non-religious through sponsoring debates and conferences in southern
California.

Please join our confidential mailing list by sending a request to
info@freethoughtalliance.org.  If you are local to Orange County or Los
Angeles, please join the Backyard Skeptics Meetup group HERE

Download the 2015 flyer HERE

Watch our past conferences on our   Streaming Service HERE..

Make a tax-deductible donation here:

PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
Comments are closed.

  • Search for: [                    ] [Search]
  • Recent Comments

      □ Craig Fine on Video Streaming
      □ David Plentl on Thank You!
      □ Talitha Sherman on Contact Us…
      □ Talitha Sherman on Thank You!
      □ Britt Winslow on Thank You!

  • Our Pages

      □ About Us
      □ Annual Conference
          ☆ Streaming of Conference
          ☆ Flyer
          ☆ Hotel
          ☆ Registration
          ☆ Schedule
          ☆ Speakers – 2014
          ☆ Speakers – 2015
          ☆ Sponsor a Student
      □ Backyard Skeptics
      □ Conference DVDs
      □ Contact Us…
      □ Donate
      □ DVDs
      □ Join our email list
      □ OC Sunday Assembly
      □ Photos from our 2011 conference
      □ Press Releases
      □ Roommate and carpool sharing
      □ Secular Gazette
      □ Speakers – 2015 conference
      □ Thank You
      □ Thank You!
      □ Video Streaming
      □ Welcome
      □ Why donate?

Freethought Alliance
Proudly powered by WordPress.
Press f for fullscreen.
spinner visit
