boulderatheists
Boulder Atheists
home  |  events  |  contact
Share |
[nav_cap]

  • Home
  • Who We Are
  • Service
  • Events
  • Mailing Lists
  • FAQ
  • Links
  • Donate
  • Contact Us

[nav_foot]

If you don't believe in supernatural entities or powers, if you are concerned
about religious intolerance or religiously motivated violence, if you rely on
human reasoning and science to guide your decisions and behavior, if you have a
naturalistic view of the world, or you just don't believe in God or gods, you
are not alone. The Boulder Atheists group provides presentations, meetings, and
serves as a social community for Colorado atheists, agnostics, rationalists,
secular humanists, Brights,and free thinkers in Boulder County, Broomfield
County, the North Denver Metro area, and beyond.

Our Motto

    "No gods, no devils, no heaven, no hell,
    just the wonderful universe around us."

Boulder Atheists wish to promote the understanding and acceptance of atheism in
Colorado and America with education, good deeds and public activities. Although
we welcome those who wish to discuss the subject of atheism, our main goal is
activism and community.

Events & Announcements

Please visit our Events page to see a listing of meetings and events scheduled
by the Boulder Atheists. You can also find information about meetings with
other atheist, free thought, skeptic, and secular humanist organizations in
Northern Colorado. For a calendar of events and activities, please visit our
Events page on this website or our Meetup.com^(R) calendar.

Monthly Meetings

The Boulder Atheists organize regular group meetings during the year to hear
guest speakers,make presentations, hold discussions, socialize, and plan
activities. Please see our Meetup calendar for details on upcoming meetings and
activities.

The monthly meetings are usually held on the fourth Sunday of the month, but
may be held at other times when a suitable meeting room is not available.

Social Activities

Looking for an easy way to meet local atheists and find out more about our
group? A friendly group of the Boulder Atheists meets for lunch and socializing
every Thursday starting at 12:30PM. You are welcome to join them and find out
more about who we are. We are meeting at the Tres Margaritas Mexican Restuarant
in Boulder at Iris and 28th Street. Check the Meetup calendar for location
information.

We also organize a monthly evening social for those who can't get away in the
middle of the day. See our Meetup.com page for more information.

If you would like an event posted on our calendar, please email the details to
.

Boulder Atheists is an affiliate of Atheist Alliance of America Boulder
Atheists is an affiliate of Atheist Alliance International
Boulder Atheists is an affiliate of American Atheists
 

NON-BELIEVERS
GIVING AID

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

SUPPORT FOR
HAITI & BEYOND

 

Secular Students and Skeptics
at CU Boulder

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
embed(http://www.meetup.com/swf/membership_badge.swf?chapterid=1308975)
Click here to check out
The Boulder Atheists!

See our Past Events page for examples of our meetings and activities.

Home  | About | Service  | Events | Mailing Lists | FAQ | Links  | Reading List
 | Contact Us

Boulder Atheists is a registered non-profit corporation in the state of
Colorado
(C) 2004-2010 Boulder Atheists.Inc.

