

                              THE BOOK OF DANIEL

                            Testimony of an Atheist

                              (C) 2015 by Daniel
                                     [pic]

                               Follow my blog at
                             http://atheiblog.com



          I'm being only a little ironic with the title. My name
          really is Daniel. And I wrote this book.

          I'm an atheist. I don't believe that any Supreme Being is
          watching over us, and I believe that the universe is simply
          here because it is here, without the need for any
          "intelligent designer" to have made it occur.

          In this book, I've tried to express my own, personal point
          of view about God and gods, about religion, and about how
          and why humanity came up with these ideas. A lot of it will
          consist of things I have thought of on my own, mixed with
          ideas I got from somewhere else. And facts. And wide
          consensus of experts that can play the role of facts.

          My intended audience is people who are already questioning
          their religious beliefs, or are not sure whether they have
          any, or who never did have any, who want to hear from
          someone who did his own questioning long ago, perhaps to
          support or give new shape to their own perceptions on the
          subject of religion. That is, if you want some reasons not
          to believe, I'm offering some here.

          If you are looking for "proof" that God doesn't exist,
          that's not what this is about. I don't believe it is
          possible to prove God doesn't exist or to prove that He
          does, using anything humanity has ever learned, thought, or
          experienced so far. All attempts to do one or the other
          have always appeared lame to me. The entire concept of God
          is outside the boundaries of what "rational proof" is
          capable of establishing.

          Anyone is welcome to read this book. I will often address
          the reader as if he/she is a religious person, because I
          will be making arguments, and it is such persons whom I am
          arguing with -- and I do hope some of them will read this,
          and offer responses to some of the things I've said here.
          (It does take two sides to have an argument.) But I am not,
          in truth, trying to convert anyone from religion to
          atheism. I am not operating under the delusion I can argue
          anyone out of their faith in God. Chapter 1, in fact, will
          suggest why converting anyone is unlikely.

          I will cite sources when I feel the need. Sometimes the
          source will be Wikipedia. People tend to disparage
          Wikipedia, putting it low on their scale of reliability,
          but the authors of its most serious articles work very hard
          and they cite outside sources, either books or Web pages to
          which they provide links, and if you don't hold Wikipedia
          in high regard, then check out the outside sources and make
          judgments on them. In fact, you're welcome to do your own
          research on anything I say here.

          The level of scholarship here is fairly modest. I haven't
          tried to bring the work up to professional publication
          level. I don't see why I would need to. Nobody is paying me
          for this.

          I hope this book is helpful.

          For the book, here is the Table of Contents. Each chapter
          ends with a link to the next chapter, so you can read
          straight through without coming back to this page, if you
          want. ALSO, down below the table of contents, there is a
          link to a downloadable PDF copy of the entire book, if
          you'd like to read it that way. For that, your computer
          would need to be equipped with a PDF reader, such as Adobe
          Reader.

                       CONTENTS (Chapters as web pages)


          1. BELIEF

          2. VALUES THREATS

          3. WHY DO SO MANY PEOPLE BELIEVE IN GOD?

          4. THE MAIN EVENT: GOOD VERSUS EVIL

          5. MORALITY FOR ATHEISTS

          6. IS THE BIBLE BELIEVABLE?

          7. MIRACLES AND GOD'S BLUNDERBUSS

          8. IS GOD OKAY?

          9. SO WHERE DID IT ALL COME FROM THEN?

          10. SOME QUESTIONS

              Click here to get the PDF version of Book of Daniel


                            Links to related sites




