"And kill every woman who has slept with a man but save for yourselves every
girl who has never slept with a man." - Moses

Mere Atheism

a·the·ist [ay-thee-ist] n. One who has read the Bible and thinks your god is as
real as the thousands you don't believe in.
[home2] Home

  • [introducti] Introduction
  • [egypt] Ancient Egypt
  • [adam] Garden of Eden
  • [midian] Midian
  • [scr] Conclusion
  • [ignatius] Divine Exceptionalism
  • [hor] What Now?

  • [bag] Email Bag
  • [grero] Grero
  • [faq] FAQ/Contact
  • [furtherrea] Further Reading
  • [evangalize] Evangelize!

Introduction

"If God is love, why does he punish innocent people?"
[sistine1]
In the beginning, let's get a few things straight...

This site aims to test the Christian claim that God is love (1 John 4:16). This
site does not aim to refute Christian answers to the problem of evil. As such,
our discussion will not deal with either theodicies of moral evil (serial
killers) or natural evil (earthquakes). However, we'll examine an overlooked
evil: intrinsically evil acts that are recorded to have been committed by God
himself.

Since Christians almost universally accept the Bible as the inspired Word of
God, we'll use three examples from the Bible to test the claim that God is
love. After all, for a lot of people like me, atheism is biblically-based.

"And so we know and rely on the love God has for us. God is love. Whoever lives
in love lives in God, and God in him." (NIV)
The problem of evil is demonstrated by questions like "Why do bad things happen
to good people?" An answer to such a question is called a theodicy.
One is hard pressed to find a Christian who believes that the Bible has no more
of God's influence than pagan myths.

Ancient Egypt

"If God is love, why does he commit genocide of innocent children?"
[lament]
Passover Plague: Genocide of the Firstborns

While there's scant evidence outside the Bible to suggest that the Israelites
were ever in Egypt, the Book of Exodus recounts the struggles of the Israelite
slaves to free themselves from their bondage. The leader of the Egyptians, the
unspecified Pharaoh, does not let the Israelites go and thus God punishes his
kingdom with numerous plagues. The last of these ten plagues is harshest: all
of the Egyptian firstborn males are killed. This tale of genocide is called the
Passover, signifying that God passed over (and thus spared) the houses of
Israelites who smeared their doors with blood of a slaughtered young male lamb
or goat. The gist of the story (minus the gratuitous references to blood
smearing):

Exodus 11:4-7; 12:29- 30 NIV

God: "About midnight I will go throughout Egypt. Every firstborn son in Egypt
will die, from the firstborn son of Pharaoh, who sits on the throne, to the
firstborn son of the slave girl, who is at her hand mill, and all the firstborn
of the cattle as well. There will be loud wailing throughout Egypt - worse than
there has ever been or ever will be again. But among the Israelites not a dog
will bark at any man or animal."

At midnight the LORD struck down all the firstborn in Egypt, from the firstborn
of Pharaoh, who sat on the throne, to the firstborn of the prisoner, who was in
the dungeon, and the firstborn of all the livestock as well. Pharaoh and all
his officials and all the Egyptians got up during the night, and there was loud
wailing in Egypt, for there was not a house without someone dead.

This gruesome snuff literature raises a few questions:

 1. Which definition of love is compatible with God punishing the innocent
    victims of a dictator?
 2. Why does God use children as hostages?
 3. Why doesn't God kill Pharaoh in the first place if he has no qualms about
    killing people?
 4. Why does God "harden Pharaoh's heart" about a dozen times (Exodus 4:21; 
    7:3; 9:12; 10:1,20,27; 11:10; 14:4,8,17)?
 5. Why does an all-powerful God need Pharaoh's permission to let the
    Israelites go?

Synopsis: Instead of resolving the situation peacefully, God decides to
indiscriminately kill the powerless victims of a dictator while leaving alive
the dictator who is incapacitated to act because his heart is hardened by none
other than God himself.

"The LORD said to Moses, 'When you return to Egypt, see that you perform before
Pharaoh all the wonders I have given you the power to do. But I will harden his
heart so that he will not let the people go...'" (NIV)
"But I will harden Pharaoh's heart, and though I multiply my miraculous signs
and wonders in Egypt..." (NIV)
"But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart and he would not listen to Moses and
Aaron, just as the LORD had said to Moses." (NIV)
"Then the LORD said to Moses, 'Go to Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart and
the hearts of his officials so that I may perform these miraculous signs of
mine among them...'" (NIV)

"But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he would not let the Israelites
go." (NIV)

"But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he was not willing to let them go."
(NIV)
"Moses and Aaron performed all these wonders before Pharaoh, but the LORD
hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he would not let the Israelites go out of his
country." (NIV)
"'And I will harden Pharaoh's heart, and he will pursue them. But I will gain
glory for myself through Pharaoh and all his army, and the Egyptians will know
that I am the LORD.' So the Israelites did this." (NIV)

"The LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, so that he pursued the
Israelites, who were marching out boldly." (NIV)

"I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians so that they will go in after them.
And I will gain glory through Pharaoh and all his army, through his chariots
and his horsemen." (NIV)

Garden of Eden

"If God is love, why does he entrap and then wrongly punish innocent people?"
[eden]
The Fall of Man: Entrapment and Wrongful Punishment

After making hundreds of billions of galaxies each with hundreds of billions of
stars, God finds time to build a resort for the pinnacle of the universe: man.
How ironic would it be if man turns out to be flawed and can't even follow
simple directions:

Genesis 2:8-9, 15-17 NIV

Now the LORD God had planted a garden in the east, in Eden; and there he put
the man he had formed. And the LORD God made all kinds of trees grow out of the
ground - trees that were pleasing to the eye and good for food. In the middle
of the garden were the tree of life and the tree of the knowledge of good and
evil. The LORD God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it
and take care of it.

God: "You are free to eat from any tree in the garden; but you must not eat
from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, for when you eat of it you
will surely die."

Someone forgets to call the exterminator man and the story quickly escalates as
God's perfect creation has an infestation of Satan in the form of a snake:

Genesis 3:1-7 NIV

Now the serpent was more crafty than any of the wild animals the LORD God had
made.

Serpent: "Did God really say, 'You must not eat from any tree in the garden'?"

Woman: "We may eat fruit from the trees in the garden, but God did say, 'You
must not eat fruit from the tree that is in the middle of the garden, and you
must not touch it, or you will die.'"

Serpent: "You will not surely die for God knows that when you eat of it your
eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil."

When the woman saw that the fruit of the tree was good for food and pleasing to
the eye, and also desirable for gaining wisdom, she took some and ate it. She
also gave some to her husband, who was with her, and he ate it. Then the eyes
of both of them were opened, and they realized they were naked; so they sewed
fig leaves together and made coverings for themselves.

God then finds out, which shouldn't come as a surprise since you've read this
story before and God is all-knowing (I guess he was testing himself). God
promptly lays the smack down:

Genesis 3:11-13, 16-19 NIV

God: "Have you eaten from the tree that I commanded you not to eat from?"

Man: "The woman you put here with me - she gave me some fruit from the tree,
and I ate it."

God: "What is this you have done, woman?"

Woman: "The serpent deceived me, and I ate."

God: "Woman, I will greatly increase your pains in childbearing; with pain you
will give birth to children. Your desire will be for your husband, and he will
rule over you."

God: "Man, cursed is the ground because of you; through painful toil you will
eat of it all the days of your life. It will produce thorns and thistles for
you, and you will eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your brow you
will eat your food until you return to the ground, since from it you were
taken; for dust you are and to dust you will return."

Party's over. God, for reasons unknown, gets uptight about Adam and Eve living
forever if they ever eat from the tree of knowledge. He hires a security guard:

Genesis 3:22-24 NIV

God: "The man has now become like one of us, knowing good and evil. He must not
be allowed to reach out his hand and take also from the tree of life and eat,
and live forever."

So the LORD God banished him from the Garden of Eden. After he drove the man
out, he placed on the east side of the Garden of Eden cherubim and a flaming
sword flashing back and forth to guard the way to the tree of life.

Whether one reads this story historically or metaphorically, the main point
stays just the same: humans did bad, humans got punished. But is that a fair
judgment? I don't think so as there are a few troubling points in the story:

 1. God allows the evil serpent to live in his garden.
 2. God does not want Adam and Eve to know the difference between good and
    evil.
 3. God plants the temptation himself, neglects to tell Adam and Eve about the
    serpent (who is "more crafty than any of the wild animals"), knows the
    outcome, yet he permits the situation to unfold. In the justice system,
    this is called a set up or entrapment.
 4. God is threatened by the notion that Adam and Eve could live forever if
    they eat from the tree of life.
 5. Worst of all: Adam and Eve know that they have done something evil only
    after eating from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. When God
    commands Adam not eat from the tree, he simply does not have the capacity
    to understand the command as he is given the faculty to discern the
    difference between good and evil only after eating from the tree of
    knowledge.

Some questions for Christians:

 1. Why does God allow the serpent to roam free in the Garden of Eden? Why
    doesn't he tell Adam and Eve about the serpent?
 2. Why does God not want Adam and Eve to know the knowledge of good and evil
    in the first place? Does God want Adam and Eve to be ignorant robots?
 3. What does God go through with this exercise despite the fact that he
    already knows the outcome? Is he testing his omniscience?
 4. Why does God feel threatened that Adam and Eve could live forever if they
    eat from the tree of life?
 5. Most importantly: How are Adam and Eve supposed to know what is good and
    what is evil if they have not eaten from the tree of the knowledge of good
    and evil?

Synopsis: God entraps Adam and Eve by planting the forbidden tree in the middle
of the garden and by allowing the serpent to roam free. Furthermore, since Adam
and Eve lack the knowledge of good and evil the moment they commit their sin,
they cannot be held accountable for not knowing that disobeying God is evil.
You might as well blame the blind for not seeing or the deaf for not hearing.

Under such perverted thinking, parents might as well throw their children out
to the streets for wanting to learn how to read. If such an act were actually
committed, the parents would hopefully be charged with child abuse and neglect.
Why does God get a free pass?

Note that God originally does not forbid Adam and Eve from eating from the tree
of life. So why does an all-knowing God fear Adam and Eve's immortality only
after they have been banished from the garden?

Midian

"If God is love, why does he act like Adolf Hitler?"
[hitler]
Genocide and Enslavement of the Midianites

After the Israelites leave Egypt where they had been oppressed, it's time for
the Israelites to don the clothes of the oppressors under the divine mandate of
God himself. For about a dozen books after Exodus, the Bible tells the story of
the conquest of Palestine in bloody detail. Perhaps the account in Numbers 31
is the most succinct of the barbaric brutality. In that story, God punishes the
Midianites for a relatively minor offense (that another nation, the Moabites,
committed):

Numbers 31:1-4, 7, 9-14 NIV

God: "Moses, take vengeance on the Midianites for the Israelites. After that,
you will be gathered to your people."

Moses: "People, arm some of your men to go to war against the Midianites and to
carry out the LORD's vengeance on them. Send into battle a thousand men from
each of the tribes of Israel."

They fought against Midian, as the LORD commanded Moses, and killed every man.
The Israelites captured the Midianite women and children and took all the
Midianite herds, flocks and goods as plunder. They burned all the towns where
the Midianites had settled, as well as all their camps. They took all the
plunder and spoils, including the people and animals, and brought the captives,
spoils and plunder to Moses and Eleazar the priest and the Israelite assembly
at their camp on the plains of Moab, by the Jordan across from Jericho.

Moses, Eleazar the priest and all the leaders of the community went to meet
them outside the camp. Moses was angry with the officers of the army - the
commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds - who returned from the
battle.

What could Moses be angry at? Perhaps the Israelites did not wage war
correctly? You bet. Perhaps they did too much damage? Nope, not enough:

Numbers 31:15- 18 NIV

Moses: "Have you allowed all the women to live? They were the ones who followed
Balaam's advice and were the means of turning the Israelites away from the LORD
in what happened at Peor, so that a plague struck the LORD's people. Now kill
all the boys. And kill every woman who has slept with a man, but save for
yourselves every girl who has never slept with a man."

What a loving God invading a country without due reason and killing and
enslaving innocent children! Here's a timeline of the story including the
context as to why the Midianites were specifically targetted:

 1. God commands the Israelites to take vengeance by waging an aggressive war.
 2. The men are killed.
 3. The women and children are taken prisoners.
 4. Midian is plundered and is then completely burned to the ground.
 5. The boys are killed. No reason is given.
 6. The women are killed. The reason is that Moabite women in Numbers 25 lured
    Israelite men to worship Moabite gods (Numbers 25:1-3). Yes, the Midianites
    , as a whole, are blamed for the misdeeds of the Moabite women (Numbers 
    25:16-18). Yes, this is an error and contradiction in the Bible.
 7. But not everyone is butchered. "Every girl who has never slept with a man"
    is saved. The Bible is not explicit in what happened to the virgin girls,
    so we're left two main possibilities: the Midianite girls were hauled off
    into slavery or forced into marriage.

Some questions:

 1. Why does an all-knowing God take revenge on the Midianites for the misdeeds
    of the Moabites?
 2. Why is "sexual immorality" and converting a group to another religion
    worthy of genocide and utter destruction?
 3. Why are the false gods of Moab so convincing to the Israelites if they're
    in contact with the real God?
 4. Why are the innocent boys killed?
 5. Why does a loving God haul virgin girls off into slavery, sexual or not?

Synopsis: It's really hard to imagine what could have been done worse here.

"While Israel was staying in Shittim, the men began to indulge in sexual
immorality with Moabite women, who invited them to the sacrifices to their
gods. The people ate and bowed down before these gods. So Israel joined in
worshiping the Baal of Peor. And the LORD's anger burned against them." (NIV)
"Treat the Midianites as enemies and kill them, because they treated you as
enemies when they deceived you in the affair of Peor and their sister Cozbi,
the daughter of a Midianite leader, the woman who was killed when the plague
came as a result of Peor." (NIV)
Please see the article "Who Wrote the Pentateuch? The Documentary Hypothesis"
under Religious Tolerance in Further Reading page.

Conclusion

"If God really existed, it would be necessary to abolish him." - Mike Bakunin
[scream]
God Is Not Love, God Is Sick

In search of testing the original claim, we have profiled three cases. In the 
first, God kills thousands of innocent children to punish a dictator who
himself is spared but is incapacitated to act by God himself. In the second,
God entraps and punishes two people who could not have known any better. In the
third, God orders an aggressive war complete with the genocide and kidnapping
of an entire nation's innocent children. What do all three situations have in
common? Three groups, consisting of entirely innocent people, were targeted and
punished severely by God for things over which they had no control.

Using just these three cases, we can see that the God character in the Bible is
very hateful. Furthermore, just a cursory glance of the other parts of the
Bible reveals that such cases are not isolated and that God (or rather his
inventors) suffers from at least four of the ten personality disorders
described by modern psychiatry: paranoid, antisocial, borderline, and
narcissistic personality disorders. A batting average of .400 is pretty good,
but unfortunately for God he's not playing baseball.

Below is a table with examples matching the diagnostic criteria for each
personality disorder from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders (DSM-IV-TR).

                         Paranoid Personality Disorder

Criteria                      Example

suspects that others are
deceiving, exploiting,        In Genesis 20, God tells Abimelech that he is "as
harming, or deceiving him or  good as dead" despite the fact that Abimelech had
her, without sufficient       not done anything.
basis

is preoccupied with
unjustified doubts about the  In the Book of Job, God goes out of his way to
loyalty or trustworthiness    prove to Satan that Job will keep his faith.
of friends or associates

is reluctant to confide in
others because of             Starting with the Burning Bush incident in Exodus
unwarranted fear that the     3, God regularly confides only with Moses during
information will be used      his lifetime.
maliciously against him or
her

                              "I will punish the Amalekites for what they did
                              to Israel [centuries before] when they waylaid
persistently bears grudges,   them as they came up from Egypt. Now go, attack
i.e., is unforgiving of       the Amalekites and totally destroy everything
insults, injuries, or         that belongs to them. Do not spare them; put to
slights                       death men and women, children and infants, cattle
                              and sheep, camels and donkeys." (1 Samuel 15:2-3
                              NIV)

perceives attacks on his or
her character or reputation   "My anger will be aroused, and I will kill you
that are not apparent to      with the sword; your wives will become widows and
others and is quick to react  your children fatherless." (Exodus 22:24 NIV)
angrily or to counterattack

                        Antisocial Personality Disorder

Criteria                      Example

failure to conform to social  "O Daughter of Babylon, doomed to destruction,
norms with respect to lawful  happy is he who repays you for what you have done
behaviors as indicated by     to us - he who seizes your infants and dashes
repeatedly performing acts    them against the rocks." (Psalm 137:8-9 NIV)
that are grounds for arrest

deceitfulness, as indicated
by repeated lying, use of     "For this reason God sends them a powerful
aliases, or conning others    delusion so that they will believe the lie." (2
for personal profit or        Thessalonians 2:11 NIV)
pleasure

                              "From there Elisha went up to Bethel. As he was
                              walking along the road, some youths came out of
irritability and              the town and jeered at him. 'Go on up, you
aggressiveness, as indicated  baldhead!' they said. 'Go on up, you baldhead!'
by repeated physical fights   He turned around, looked at them and called down
or assaults                   a curse on them in the name of the LORD. Then two
                              bears came out of the woods and mauled forty-two
                              of the youths." (2 Kings 2:23-24 NIV)

                              "See how the waters are rising in the north; they
                              will become an overflowing torrent. They will
reckless disregard for        overflow the land and everything in it, the towns
safety of self or others      and those who live in them. The people will cry
                              out; all who dwell in the land will wail."
                              (Jeremiah 47:2 NIV)

lack of remorse, as
indicated by being
indifferent to or             In Exodus 13, God commemorates the genocide of
rationalizing having hurt,    the Egyptian firstborn.
mistreated, or stolen from
another

                        Borderline Personality Disorder

Criteria                      Example

frantic efforts to avoid      In Genesis 1-2, God is bored so he creates pets
real or imagined              to play with. They're called humans.
abandonment.

a pattern of intense and
unstable interpersonal        In Exodus 3, God chooses Moses to be a prophet.
relationships characterized   But already in Exodus 4, God is ready to kill
by alternating between        Moses because his son is uncircumcised.
extremes of idealization and
devaluation

identity disturbance:         "I form the light and create darkness, I bring
markedly and persistently     prosperity and create disaster; I, the LORD, do
unstable self-image or sense  all these things." (Isaiah 45:7 NIV)
of self

recurrent suicidal behavior,  Jesus fasts for forty days in the desert, hints
gestures, or threats, or      to his disciples that he will die, but refuses to
self-mutilating behavior      prove himself during his trial. (Luke 4, Luke 22,
                              Luke 23)

inappropriate, intense anger  "I will wipe mankind, whom I have created, from
or difficulty controlling     the face of the earth - men and animals, and
anger (e.g., frequent         creatures that move along the ground, and birds
displays of temper, constant  of the air - for I am grieved that I have made
anger, recurrent physical     them." (Genesis 6:7 NIV)
fights)

                       Narcissistic Personality Disorder

Criteria                      Example

                              "You shall have no other gods before me. You
                              shall not make for yourself an idol in the form
                              of anything in heaven above or on the earth
                              beneath or in the waters below. You shall not bow
has a grandiose sense of      down to them or worship them; for I, the LORD
self-importance               your God, am a jealous God, punishing the
                              children for the sin of the fathers to the third
                              and fourth generation of those who hate me, but
                              showing love to a thousand generations of those
                              who love me and keep my commandments." (Exodus
                              20:3-6 NIV)

is preoccupied with           "Your right hand, O LORD, was majestic in power.
fantasies of unlimited        Your right hand, O LORD, shattered the enemy."
success, power, brilliance,   (Exodus 15:6 NIV)
beauty, or ideal love

believes that he or she is
"special" and unique and can
only be understood by, or     The Israelites are the chosen people in the Old
should associate with, other  Testament to the exclusion of everyone else.
special or high-status
people

                              In Genesis 4, Cain works in the fields and thus
requires excessive            only has produce to offer to God. Abel has a
admiration                    flock and offers animal sacrifices. God doesn't
                              like Cain's efforts, he likes Abel's.

has a sense of entitlement,   While the Israelites were in the desert, a man
i.e., unreasonable            was found gathering wood on the Sabbath day. The
expectations of especially    LORD said to Moses, "The man must die. The whole
favorable treatment or        assembly must stone him outside the camp." So the
automatic compliance with     assembly took him outside the camp and stoned him
his or her expectations       to death, as the LORD commanded Moses. (Numbers
                              15:32,35-36 NIV)

Conclusion: God is not love, God is sick. Love is not compatible with genocide,
entrapment, and enslavement or if does that's a rather loose definition.

"God is love." - 1 John 4:16
Ancient Egypt, Passover Plague: Genocide of the Firstborns
Garden of Eden: Entrapment and Wrongful Punishment
Midian: Genocide and Enslavement of the Midianites

Divine Exceptionalism

"To be right in everything, we ought always to hold that the white we see is
black if the Church so decides it." - Ignatius of Loyola
[ignatiuslo]
How do Christians reconcile a loving God who commits atrocities?

If the subject of this website were anybody other than God, no one would have a
problem with calling such a person despicable. But Christians tell me that God
is different. He is so wholly other that when he is described as murdering
children that's still considered love. No matter what God does, he is still
good. But why this divine exceptionalism? Why can't God follow basic elementary
principles like "Thou shalt not commit genocide of children"? Here's the list
of common excuses in Q&A format:

The edicts of God from Israel's holy wars do not apply anymore. Why don't you
quote some nice things from the New Testament?

 1. This argument is false: There's nothing to suggest in the New Testament
    that Jesus is separate from the Old Testament. In fact, if you want nice
    things from the New Testament, how about a bunch of verses that show that
    Jesus affirms the Father (Matthew 5:17-19, 11:25, 20:23; 2 Timothy 
    3:16-17)?
 2. This argument is irrelevant: Even if the rules of the game change with
    Jesus, the Christian idea of God includes perfection. A perfect god cannot
    commit imperfect acts, including in the past. Killing innocent children is
    an imperfect act, ergo God is not perfect.

God should not be held to human standards as he's outside the universe. Since
he is omniscient and we have finite knowledge, we are in no position to judge
him.

 1. This argument is circular: That God is love (or that God is perfect) is the
    claim. One cannot assume it to be true. Claims are decided by evidence and
    not by repeating the claim as an assertion. To see an illustration of why
    the argument is nonsensical, plug in *any* god instead of God into the list
    above that claims perfection but seemingly fails to achieve it. What do you
    get? You get a "proof" for that god, although the exercise is futile
    because it's not very convincing. (In fact, all of these arguments in this
    section can apply to any god.)
 2. This argument is an unparsimonious ad hoc hypothesis: Explaining one
    unknown (how can God be love/perfect despite acts of genocide, etc.) with
    an even bigger unknown (God is infinite) is ludicrous. Claims that fail to
    be proven true cannot be rescued by tacking on more and more complicated
    assumptions.
 3. This argument is contradictory: If we're so limited that we cannot see why
    God would commit genocide, how can Christians claim they know that he's
    infinite? If we can't know something so simple about God, how can we know
    anything complex about him?
 4. This argument is untestable: Christians who maintain that God is outside
    the universe do so at a high cost. If God decides to skedaddle out of the
    realm of logical reality and go on adventures in Wonderland, he finds
    company with Zeus, meaningless sentences like "Tuesday smells like boats,"
    leprechauns, and other nonentities. Is that the category Christians want to
    put him into?

Uhhhh, humans are meant to obey God because he is sovereign of the universe who
ought not to be second-guessed. Why are you questioning him?

 1. This argument is (still circular but more importantly) illogical: If reason
    is a God-given gift, why are we punished for using it? It's as if God
    implanted us with an itch and we're told not scratch it. And why not
    question God? What harm is there for God if we don't believe in him? Is he
    going to be upset if we don't believe in him? Is he going to cry? Why would
    an infinite and all-powerful being care if we believed in him or not? How
    can such a supposedly perfect God be that vain?

"Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not
come to abolish them but to fulfill them. I tell you the truth, until heaven
and earth disappear, not the smallest letter, not the least stroke of a pen,
will by any means disappear from the Law until everything is accomplished.
Anyone who breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to
do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven, but whoever
practices and teaches these commands will be called great in the kingdom of
heaven." (NIV)
"At that time Jesus said, 'I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth,
because you have hidden these things from the wise and learned, and revealed
them to little children.'" (NIV)
"Jesus said to them, 'You will indeed drink from my cup, but to sit at my right
or left is not for me to grant. These places belong to those for whom they have
been prepared by my Father.'" (NIV)
"All Scripture is God-breathed and is useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting
and training in righteousness." (NIV)

What Now?

"Question with boldness even the existence of God; because, if there be one, he
must more approve of the homage of reason than that of blind-folded fear." -
Tom Jefferson
[horus]
Which of the thousands of gods is the right one?

The fact that one is a sociopath does not make one non-existent. With that
said, atheism is just one of many logical conclusions that the god of the Bible
is not love. There's perhaps four more:

                                   (Modified) Christianity

              The god of the Bible does exist, but he is malevolent and not
              loving. As such, the only reason we should believe in this god is
              that he can make us suffer by sending us to Hell. This is no
[stalin]      different than bowing down to a dictator because he's powerful.
              To atheists, such a god is petty, vain, and curiously all too
              human. To atheists, man created gods in his image, not the other
              way around.

              Motto: "Keep the virgin girls for yourselves. War is peace.
              Freedom is slavery. Ignorance is strength."

                         Revelatory Theism (other than Christianity)

              The god of the Bible does not exist, but [insert one of the
              thousands of other gods] does. However, on closer inspection all
[horusicon]   scriptures reveal the same kind of petty deities as the god of
              the Bible. To atheists, from Aah (Egyptian moon god) to
              Zvaizdikis (Slavic star god), they're all the same vain beings.

              Motto: "No, I'm the real god! It's the other ten thousand gods
              who are fakes!"

                                       Deadbeat Deism

              The god of the Bible does not exist, but one that created the
              universe does exist. More importantly, this god doesn't care he's
              being misquoted in dozens of different holy books. Furthermore,
[yoda]        this god apparently doesn't care to be worshipped or to maintain
              communication with humans; hence, he's inconsequential.
              Practically speaking, it's as if he didn't exist. To atheists,
              such a god is useless to postulate since he's as useful to us as
              invisible pink unicorns.

              Motto: "Eh, whatever."

                                      Ironic Surrealism

              The god of the Bible does exist, but he's lying through the Bible
              to test Christians. Only those who reject the Bible get into
              Heaven because God wants a good laugh... or something. Now, this
              view isn't actually held by anyone, but it does demonstrate the
[dali]        precarious position Christians find themselves in. If humans are
              limited, how do Christians know that an infinite being isn't just
              screwing with them for kicks? An infinite god, by definition,
              could easily outsmart humans.

              Motto: "You thought I wanted to spend all eternity with people
              who worship Bronze Age myths created by semi-literate
              war-mongers? Haha, come on now."

                                     Atheism/Agnosticism

              Atheism is the realization that magical fairies aren't whirling
              about trying to get you to stop looking at naughty magazines.
[atheismico]  Your prayers about doing well on your math test have about the
              same chance of being answered as the prayers of the Midianite or
              Egyptian children.

              Motto: "[Insert whatever you want.]"

So perhaps the title, Mere Atheism, is a bit misleading. This site is perhaps
better described as an introduction to atheism. As such, the atheist position
is fully defended and justified by the many essays in Further Reading. If you
have questions about those essays or this one, email me.

A revealed religion refers to a religion in which a deity has revelead a part
of himself through scripture. For Christians, this would be the Bible. Theism
means a belief in a god or gods.
Of course, considering the book of Job where God and the Devil reconcile to
become gambling buddies, this really isn't that far-fetched. In fact, while not
named so, the possibility of this ironic surrealism has been discussed by
atheists before. Please see the article "End of Pascal's Wager: Only Nontheists
Go to Heaven" under The Secular Web Library in the Further Reading page.
The name of this site, Mere Atheism, is a bit misleading. Please see the
article "Atheism and Agnosticism Defined" under A Skeptic's Guide to
Christianity in the Further Reading page for a concise review of the.
Home | Email Me | FAQ | Further Reading | Evangalize!
Copyright © 2007 Mereatheism.com
