 
                        Humanist Society of Gainesville

  Secular Humanists, Atheists, Agnostics, and Free Thinkers of North Central
                                    Florida
                A chapter of the American Humanist Association

Pages

  • About HSG
  • Upcoming Events
  • Recommended Reads
  • Join
  • Communicating with Believers
  • Blog

●

About HSG

Welcome!

If you are a person who believes that the problems of the world can only be
solved by responsible human actions based on rational analysis and
decision-making free of dogma or the guidance of imaginary supreme beings, then
you'll find like-minded people and make new friends at the Humanist Society of
Gainesville.


[m16_hubble]
Pillars of Creation
--Photo by NASA Hubble
Our goal is to provide information, encourage activism, and serve as a social
resource for members and others interested in a rational, humanistic world
view. We want to foster a positive image of secular humanism in the community
and counter unfair attacks and accusations by religious zealots. We believe in
freedom of religion and respect the rights of all people to practice their
spirituality and faith as they see fit. However, we also believe that no person
or religion has the right to impose their beliefs on other people through
public education or public policy, or to force others to participate in their
religious practices. We encourage nonbelievers to speak out and express their
true beliefs. Most importantly, we want to serve as a support group for
atheists, secular humanists, freethinkers and other non-religious people.

We meet once or twice a month for programs, discussion forums, community
service events and informal get-togethers. Some of our members may also meet
and share activities with the Humanist Circle of the Unitarian Universal
Church.

Please take a moment to explore our website and be sure to check out our blog
to learn about  issues in the news of interest to humanists.  Whether you are a
newcomer to the area or an old timer revisiting our site, please know that the
new Humanist Society of Gainesville has a place for you. Please join us at our
next meeting!

Our Goals:

 1. Promote secular humanism as an ethical and moral lifestyle choice.
 2. Provide a support group for secular humanists and like minded people
    through discussion groups, social activities, and community events.
 3. Protect secular humanists and other non-theists from unfair attacks and
    accusations.
 4. Foster a positive image in the community by participating and/or sponsoring
    public service events and other outreach activities.
 5. Promote and protect science curriculum, free inquiry, and analytical
    thinking in public education.
 6. Work to preserve first amendment rights regarding separation of church and
    state.

Our Officers:
     The Humanist Society of Gainesville elects officers annually through the
membership.  Officer Positions include President, Vice President, Treasurer,
Secretary, Immediate Past President, and four At-Large Board Members. 
Elections occur in March.            

By-Laws:
Read our Bylaws here.

More About Humanism

[asimov]

"As indicated by our very name, we humanists celebrate humanity, want humanity
to survive, and recognize that if humanity does survive, it will be by its own
efforts. Never can we sit back and wait for miracles to save us. Miracles don't
happen. Sweat happens. Effort happens. Thought happens. And it is up to us
humanists to help--to expend our sweat, our effort and our thought. Then there
will be hope for the world." -Isaac Asimov



 Secular Humanism:
     Secular Humanism is a non-theistic way of thinking and living that draws
its knowledge from science, its inspiration from art, and its motivation from
compassion. It is based on the belief that each person is unique and valuable,
and that we must all rely on each other to improve the world and the condition
of humankind. 
     Secular Humanism asserts that we must each take responsibility for
ourselves and for the communities in which we live, not relying on beliefs in
supernatural forces or gods to intervene in our behalf. Secular Humanism
emphasizes reason, scientific inquiry, individual freedom, human values and the
need for tolerance and cooperation. Secular humanism, then, is a philosophy and
world view which centers upon human concerns and employs rational and
scientific methods to address the wide range of issues important to us all.
     While secular humanism is at odds with faith-based religious systems on
many issues, it is dedicated to the fulfillment of the individual and humankind
in general. To accomplish this end, secular humanism encourages a commitment to
a set of principles which promote the development of tolerance and compassion
and an understanding of the methods of science, critical analysis, and
philosophical reflection. (American Humanist Association)


[buck] 

"I feel no need for any other faith than my faith in human beings. Like
Confucius of old, I am so absorbed in the wonder of earth and the life upon it
that I cannot think of heaven and the angels." -Pearl S. Buck






Science and Reason:
     We believe the scientific method, though imperfect, is still the most
reliable way of understanding the world. Hence, we look to the natural,
biological, social, and behavioral sciences for knowledge of the universe and
man's place within it. We deplore efforts to denigrate human intelligence, to
seek to explain the world in supernatural terms, and to look outside of nature
for salvation. We appreciate the great benefits that science and technology
(especially basic and applied research) can bring to humankind, but we also
recognize the need to balance scientific and technological advances with
cultural explorations in art, music, and literature. (Council for Secular
Humanism)


[benfranklin] 




"The way to see by faith is to shut the eye of reason." -Benjamin Franklin





Morality and Ethics:
    We are committed to moral excellence in ourselves and in our children. We
believe that human values have their origin in human nature, experience and
culture. We advocate constitutional democracy as the best means for securing
justice, equality and fairness in society. We believe that seeking moral
guidance from supernatural or mythological beings is contrary to human
happiness and growth.(Council for Secular Humanism)


[whitman]  "Pointing to another world will never stop vice among us; shedding
           light over this world can alone help us." -Walt Whitman


Freethought:
      We believe that the mind should not be shackled by any religious,
political, ideological or social institution. We believe that questioning
claims to authority leads to an open and free society. Free inquiry is
essential for the attainment of the necessary knowledge to advance humankind
and preserve our planet.


  [paine]



  "Each of those churches (Christian, Judaic and Islamic) accuse the other of
  unbelief; and for my own part, I disbelieve them all." -Thomas Paine

Separation of Church and State:
      We believe that the very foundation of our freedom is the separation of
church and state. Only this separation can insure plurality and tolerance for
all world views. Breeches in this wall, no matter how small, are threats to
democracy and all that we hold dear. The lessons of history are clear: wherever
one religion or ideology is established and given a dominant position in the
state, minority opinions are in jeopardy. A pluralistic, open democratic
society allows all points of view to be heard. Any effort to impose an
exclusive conception of Truth, Piety, Virtue, or Justice upon the whole of
society is a violation of free inquiry. Clerical authorities should not be
permitted to legislate their own parochial views - whether moral,
philosophical, political, educational. or social - for the rest of society. Nor
should tax revenues be exacted for the benefit or support of sectarian
religious institutions. Compulsory religious oaths and prayers in public
institutions (political or educational) are also a violation of the separation
principle. (Council for Secular Humanism)



  [madison]



  "The purpose of separation of church and state is to keep forever from these
  shores the ceaseless strife that has soaked the soil of Europe in blood for
  centuries." -James Madison




National Humanist Groups:
     All humanist groups share certain core beliefs, chief of which is the
conviction that humans are responsible for the betterment of the world, and can
only solve the world's problems though science, reason, and compassion. The
Humanist Society of Gainesville agrees with these principles. See the sidebar
for a list of links to other secular humanist organizations.


●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
[HSGLogo]
●

Humanist Groups

  • American Humanist Association
  • Council for Secular Humanism
  • Association of Unitarian Universalist Humanists
  • Center for Inquiry
  • Secular Coalition of America
  • Gator Freethought
  • Military Association of Atheists & Freethinkers

●

Blog Archive

  • ▼  2014 (7)
      □ ▼  November (1)
          ☆ Upcoming Meeting Reminder
      □ ►  October (1)
      □ ►  July (1)
      □ ►  June (1)
      □ ►  May (2)
      □ ►  February (1)

  • ►  2013 (13)
      □ ►  December (1)
      □ ►  November (1)
      □ ►  October (1)
      □ ►  September (1)
      □ ►  August (1)
      □ ►  July (1)
      □ ►  June (1)
      □ ►  May (1)
      □ ►  March (2)
      □ ►  February (1)
      □ ►  January (2)

  • ►  2012 (32)
      □ ►  December (1)
      □ ►  November (2)
      □ ►  October (2)
      □ ►  September (1)
      □ ►  August (2)
      □ ►  July (1)
      □ ►  June (2)
      □ ►  May (8)
      □ ►  April (5)
      □ ►  March (8)

●

Search This Blog

Loading...
●

Subscribe To

[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
●

Like our page on Facebook!

[1347877332]
●
 

Follow by Email

[                    ]                                                 [Submit]

●
 
Picture Window template. Template images by sololos. Powered by Blogger.
●
