Home | Find An Ethical Society | Contact
facebook
twitter
youtube
google_plus

[AEU_Logo_w]


BtnDonate
[— Main Menu —                      ]

  • Who We Are
      □ Mission & Vision
      □ History
      □ Ethical Humanism
      □ Member Societies
      □ Staff, Board & Committees
  • What We Do
      □ Sunday Platform Talks
      □ Ethical Action
          ☆ Ethical Action Calendar
      □ Social Justice Theme
      □ Ethical Education
      □ Conferences
      □ Awards
  • Ceremonies
      □ Seasonal Festivals
      □ Weddings
      □ Baby Namings
      □ Coming of Age
      □ Memorials
  • Our Community
      □ Children’s Programming
      □ Youth of Ethical Societies (YES)
      □ Future of Ethical Societies (FES)
      □ National Leaders Council
      □ National Ethical Service
      □ Find an Ethical Society
      □ Allied Organizations
  • Events & News
      □ Events
      □ News
      □ Newsletters
      □ Platform Videos
      □ Thoughts from AEU Board
      □ In the Media
      □ Press Kit
  • Resources
      □ Articles
      □ Books
      □ Ethical Action Reports
      □ Resolutions
      □ Statements
  • Contact

[Search...           ]
[Go!]
  • [stainGlass]

    Deed Before Creed

    Ethical Societies are where Humanists, Non-theists, Agnostics, Atheists,
    Believers, and Non-believers join together.
  • [croud]

    Fighting for Civil & Human Rights

    We strive to act so as to bring out the best in others and thereby in
    ourselves.
  • [DeckScene]

    Exploring Meaning in Life

    We value the importance of living an ethical, responsible, and joyful life.

AEU Publications

View the AEU Dialogue Fall 2015 Issue to learn about the amazing work done by
our organization, Societies, and affiliates. View All Newsletters
Read the Ethical Action Report December 2015 to be updated on Society projects
and national campaigns to create a more ethical world. View All Ethical Action
Reports
See Thoughts from AEU Board President Jan Broughton to stay current with the
AEU and our Board. View All Thoughts from AEU Board

AEU Viewpoints

December 8 -- We have all heard the expression "If you're not outraged, you're
not paying attention." I have been paying attention, and I am outraged. That
emotion has almost paralyzed me as I gasp for breath in between every day's new
revelations of violence, hate, and demagoguery. Today, on the 35th anniversary
of John Lennon's murder, I am trying to imagine the world he described, because
I, too, am a dreamer. A world with no heaven or hell, no countries and no
religions, no possessions and no need for greed or hunger. We know that
humanity yearns for a world of peace, where we can live together as one, and we
are trying our best to join together, but there are people standing in our way.
We are dreamers who must take action now. Read More

Get Started

BtnFind BtnAffiliate BtnMeet BtnDonate
[community-]

Ethical Humanism

Ethical Humanism/Ethical Culture is a moral faith that respects the dignity and
worth of all life.
Read More
[slider3a-4]

Ethical Action

Ethical Action enables us to help create a better world for all who share it.
Read More
[Bartkids-4]

Ethical Education

Ethical Education programming provides life-long learning for life-long growth.
Read More

Events

[2014-08-01]

AEU Board Meetings

19 Mar 2016 | 09:00 am
[FES_hug-e1]

FES Conference in Brooklyn

27 May 2016 | 06:00 pm
[logoSTLOUI]

AEU 101st Annual Assembly St. Louis

14 Jul 2016 | 04:00 pm

Featured Societies

Ethical Society of St. Louis

St Louis clergy stop traffic FergusonSt. Louis participated in protests and
vigils in Ferguson in the weeks following Michael Brown’s death and has
continued to hold numerous events, including participating in interfaith
demonstrations.

Washington Ethical Society

WES sidewalk solidarityWES began regular “Sidewalk Solidarity” actions
exclaiming “this problem is larger than Ferguson,” “#BlackLivesMatter,” and
“justice is for all.” WES also held a panel discussion on safe communities with
the ACLU, United Black Front, Metropolitan Police Dept. and Family and Friends
of Incarcerated People; and involved their youth in a developmentally
appropriate teach-in on racism.

Baltimore Ethical Community

Baltimore Community Conversation 1Baltimore Ethical Society Ethical Action
Committee has been working actively in Criminal Justice reform. With the
guidance of local groups including the Campaign for the Fair Sentencing of
Youth, the Society testified before state and local officials asking for an end
to racially biased incarceration and sentencing.

Brooklyn Society for Ethical Culture

12003163_1005670206144613_7171126350885980633_nBSEC hosted “BlackLivesMatter:
Changing the (In)Justice System” as their annual Charley Horwitz Memorial
Platform to honor work in peace and justice. The program featured Elsa Waithe
(left), comedian/activist, and Kjung-Ji Kate Rhee (right), Juvenile Justice
Director at Center for NuLeadership.

Featured Platform Talks

[MariamaRic]

Racial Literacy in Schools

Posted on 12 Jan 2016
 
[md-150x150]

Positivity and Flourishing

Posted on 20 Dec 2015
 
[affiliateI]

Global Humanism

Posted on 26 Nov 2015
 

News

[AHA-holida]

WES Celebrates “Ethical Culture Style”

23 Dec 2015
Off
Thank you, Washington Ethical Society, for creating this wonderful Guide to the
Holidays. It includes poetry, articles, candle lighting readings, Platforms,
and more ideas to keep you warm this season. And thanks to the American
Humanist Association for this great image that...
Read More →

Social Media Intern for Ethical Action

08 Dec 2015
Off
The Ethical Action Committee (EAC) brings Ethical Societies together to
strengthen Action, create alliances that make Actions more sustainable, and
contribute to a sense of community and common purpose across the Ethical
Culture Movement. This position will provide extensive...
Read More →
[AnyaOverma]

FES Joins International Humanist and Ethical Youth Organization

08 Dec 2015
Off
Congratulations to Future of Ethical Societies (FES) for being officially
accepted into the International Humanist and Ethical Youth Organization (IHEYO)
and beginning the American Working Group! Anya Overmann, member of FES and the
Ethical Society of St. Louis, attended the...
Read More →

Facebook Feed

 
American Ethical Union
American Ethical Union

Portion of funds raised go to support Foundation Beyond Belief ... See MoreSee
Less

SkepticKids Shirts Offer a Response to Religious Messaging on Children

patheos.com

Lindsey Hebert and Ashley Oliver are both atheist mothers from the South who
are used to seeing kids with clothes bearing religious messages. It prompted
them to create shirts that push back against that culture.

21 hours ago  .  

View on Facebook
.Share

     

 
American Ethical Union
American Ethical Union

How else can we make ethical decisions on what to eat if we don't know what's
in our food? ... See MoreSee Less

Food & Water Watch

Are you hearing about closed door meetings in DC on GMO Labeling? We’re not in
them. But we do know that the Senate will have to deal with the industry push
to block state GMO labeling laws. Take Action now to tell the Senate to stop
Monsanto’s Dream Bill:

21 hours ago  .  

View on Facebook
.Share

     

    View on Facebook

Twitter Feed

Tweets by @EthicalUnion
American Ethical Union | 2 West 64th Street, New York, NY 10023 | Phone: (212)
873-6500 | office@aeu.org
