  • Home
  • Contact Us
  • American Humanist Association

[Home                          ]
       

LGBTQ Humanists | The LGBTQ Humanist Council of the American Humanist
Association LGBTQ Humanists

  • Home
  • About
      □ Contact Us
  • Take Action
      □ Action Alerts
      □ Conference Calls
      □ Projects
  • About Humanism
  • Blog
  • Local
  • Resources

  • Remembering Our Dead: Transgender Day of Remembrance Sadly Still Needed

Remembering Our Dead: Transgender Day of Remembrance Sadly Still Needed

November 20, 2015 – Callie Wright on remembering those we lost to
anti-transgender violence over the past year. Read more here.

Latest from the LGBTQ Humanist Council

A New Humanist Take on the Emerging Vocabulary of Romance, Gender, and
Sexuality

A New Humanist Take on the Emerging Vocabulary of Romance, Gender, and
Sexuality

LGBTQ Humanist Council Staff   /  December 14, 2015

Finding new words for expressing people’s sexual, romantic, and gender-oriented
identities has become something of national interest >>

Remembering Our Dead: Transgender Day of Remembrance Sadly Still Needed

Remembering Our Dead: Transgender Day of Remembrance Sadly Still Needed

LGBTQ Humanist Council Staff   /  November 20, 2015

The Transgender Day of Remembrance honors those lost to anti-transgender
violence over the past year. >>

LGBT History Month: A Movement of Survival

LGBT History Month: A Movement of Survival

LGBTQ Humanist Council Staff   /  October 5, 2015

Remembering those who helped pave the way for increased LGBTQ rights and
acceptance. >>

LGBTQ Humanist News

A full weekend tabling at Creating Change #cc16

Today at 6:49am • No Comments

The AHA was proud to participate in an event on Capitol Hill promoting the
Restore Honor to Service Members Act, which would allow veterans that received
a dishonorable discharge from the military because of their sexual orientation
to request a review of their discharge characterization and, where appropriate,
have their discharge characterization upgraded to “honorable."

At the event was Senator Brian Schatz (front left), Representative Charlie
Rangel (front middle), Representative Mark Pocan (front right), and the AHA's
lobbyist Matthew Bulger (back middle).

Nov 5th, 2015 6:39am • No Comments

Action Alerts

Oppose Prayer at School Board Meetings

Oppose Prayer at School Board Meetings

Help us ensure that school board meetings remain secular and focused on
improving schools instead of...

LGBT Flag with Military Solute silhouette

Tell Your Senators to Oppose the Military Religous Freedom Act!

Stand with us to oppose the discriminatory, homophobic, and improperly named
“Religious Freedom Act...

Pride Flag Love Not H8 Sign

Tell Congress to Support the Student Non-Discrimination Act & the Safe Schools
Improvement Act!

Dear Friend, Teen bullying is an epidemic sweeping our school systems. LGBT
students, and students p...

LGBTQ Humanist Projects

Our Stories
Our Stories

Our Stories

The LGBT Humanist Council wants to know from you: what is your story? Your
story is valuable. It is ...

Search LGBTQ Humanists:

[                    ][Search]
[Logo_GWOAG]

The American Humanist Association (AHA)
is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization

Follow Us

Tweets by @LGBTQHumanists

Like Us

Contact Us

American Humanist Association
1777 T St. NW | Washington, DC 20009

Toll Free: (800) 837-3792

Email Us: lgbtq [at] americanhumanist.org

Or, contact us via Facebook or Twitter

© 2015 American Humanist Association. The LGBTQ Humanist Council is a project
of the American Humanist Association.
