Atheist Volunteers


                        Doing good in the name of atheism.

                        What is Atheist Volunteers?

                        Atheist man gives out Christmas gifts in Guyana dressed
                        as Santa Claus

                        A long time fan/member of The Rational Response Squad
                        community wrote to me recently to tell me about a
                        particularly fulfilling charitable event that he
                        participates in. Jeffrick (as he goes by on RRS)
                        married Sally 25 years ago. His wife was born and
                        raised in Guyana. After her sister died of a heart
                        attack 7 years ago the 6 remaining sisters set up the
                        Forever 7 Foundation. The charity provides food hampers
                        to needy familys and a full out Christmas party with
                        Santa and presents for their children. The charity even
                        pays the taxi fare for familys to attend to and from
                        the event.

                        Why Guyana? The sisters are doing it for their
                        hometown, they grew up in a wooden shack, similar to
                        the ones you see in the video below. The cost of this
                        charity is 100% covered by Jeffrick and his wife's
                        family. In fact if you try to donate, Jeffrick will
                        send the check back.

                        As you'll see in the video below, the atheist Santa is
                        helping to make a small village of Guyanese children
                        very happy. He takes particular pleasure in this
                        moment. The children he gives the gifts to are Hindu
                        and Muslim and they don't regard Christmas as a
                        religious holiday. Jeffrick has particular fun in
                        enjoying "Christmas with all the good stuff and none of
                        the nonsense."

                        Kudos to you Jeffrick for your kind humanitarian
                        nature. You remind us that atheists do good things
                        directly under religions nose.

                        Jeffrick posted about his charity at RRS.

                        Submitted by Sapient on Wed, 2014-01-15 11:18.

                          • Sapient's blog
                          • Login to post comments

                        Oklahoma Tornado Relief

                        Here are the links for fundraisers that will help
                        Oklahoma Tornado victims without religion. Such
                        horrible natural disasters remind us that there is no
                        god that has the power or care to stop and that prayer
                        is a waste of time and energy. We can do something, or
                        we can pray, it's up to us.

                        Foundation Beyond Belief is fundraising:
                        http://foundationbeyondbelief.org/crisis

                        "At 3:01 pm CT on May 20, a massive F-4 tornado
                        decimated the Oklahoma City suburb of Moore, OK. Scores
                        of severe injuries and deaths have been reported, and
                        intense work is under way to find and rescue those
                        trapped in the rubble.

                        The Humanist Crisis Response program of Foundation
                        Beyond Belief has opened a donation drive in response
                        to this disaster. Our staff worked through the night to
                        assess the disaster situation and the relief
                        organizations responding. This morning we have selected
                        Operation USA and the Regional Food Bank of Oklahoma to
                        receive our donations. These organizations were chosen
                        for their long records of outstanding work, their high
                        ratings and transparency, and their current direct work
                        in the disaster zone addressing the primary needs of
                        food, shelter, and medical aid."

                        We are atheism is fundraising:
                        http://www.weareatheism.com/donate/
                        atheist-giving-aid-oklahoma-tornado-relief

                        "This one hits close to home. We are headquartered in
                        Shawnee, KS, about 4.5 hours northeast of Moore, OK.
                        We’ve seen tornadoes. We know people that lived through
                        the Joplin, MO tornadoes. We know people whose homes
                        have been devastated by violent storms. What happened
                        outside of Oklahoma City is nothing short of a natural
                        disaster.
                        People have died, children gone, families ripped apart.
                        At this time, others can pray if they want, but we want
                        to help. These families and the citizens left there
                        with no homes, will need help. We know the Red Cross is
                        on hand. They serve a great purpose. However, a lot of
                        their funds go to pay overhead. With us, your money
                        goes right to those that need help. So, if you want to
                        give money where you know it will go directly to
                        someone in need, and NOT go through a religious source,
                        then consider giving to Atheists Giving Aid. Whatever
                        you can financially spare will allow our organization
                        to get lives back to normal."

                        Submitted by Sapient on Tue, 2013-05-21 23:15.

                          • Sapient's blog
                          • Login to post comments

                        Foundation Beyond Belief Year-End Drive

                        The following fundraiser supports humanistic charity:
                        https://www.stayclassy.org/checkout/donation?cid=7162&
                        pid=7899

                        Welcome to the Year-End Drive for Foundation Beyond
                        Belief, a charitable organization of compassionate
                        humanists working for a better world. We don't eat much
                        -- in fact, we don't eat ANY of the donations that our
                        humanist members designate for our featured charities.
                        That means we have to raise the funds separately to run
                        our charitable giving program, the Volunteers Beyond
                        Belief network, and Humanist Crisis Response. In 2012
                        alone we raised over $500,000 for charities and
                        disaster relief around the world, and our Volunteers
                        program expanded to 23 teams. Next year we hope to
                        double our membership, launch affiliates in Canada and
                        Australia, and begin building a Humanist Service Corps
                        working in several developing countries. For every $10
                        you contribute, you will receive an entry in a drawing
                        for one of three signed, personalized copies of Dale
                        McGowan's latest book VOICES OF UNBELIEF -- a hardcover
                        anthology of atheist and agnostic documents that
                        retails for $100. We hope you find our vision of
                        compassionate humanism in action to be worth
                        supporting. THANK YOU from the bottom of our hearts!

                        Submitted by Sapient on Wed, 2012-12-05 22:31.

                          • Sapient's blog
                          • Login to post comments

                        List of Secular charitable organizations

                        A number of secular, non-religious aid organizations
                        are active when natural disasters strike in the US.
                        They do not incorporate a religious message in their
                        operations, nor do they proselytize to those in need.

                        AMERICAN FRIENDS SERVICES COMMITTEE
                        AMERICAN HUMANIST ASSOCIATION
                        AMERICAN NATIONAL RED CROSS (Founded by Deist-Unitarian
                        Clara Barton)
                        AMERICARES
                        HANDS ON HUMANITY is a project of the Universist
                        Movement. It is operated by Atheists and other
                        secularists, and is concentrating on the Birmingham,
                        Ala. area. It has applied for non-profit status.
                        FOUNDATION BEYOND BELIEF
                        The MASONIC SERVICES ASSOCIATION OF NORTH AMERICA has
                        established a Katrina Hurricane Relief fund and accepts
                        on-line donations.
                        MERCYCORPS
                        NETWORK FOR GOOD (has numerous listings for helping
                        groups, both religious and secular)
                        OXFAM AMERICA
                        SECOND HARVEST
                        UNITED WAY OF AMERICA
                        HUMANE SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES (Our winged and
                        four-legged friends need help, too!)
                        PETSMART CHARITIES

                        Submitted by Sapient on Wed, 2012-12-05 12:03.

                          • Sapient's blog
                          • Login to post comments

                        Indoctrinated home schooled girl refuses life in the
                        kitchen and seeks education

                        The atheist community is firmly united in assisting a
                        young girl who was brought up in a religious home that
                        seeks to keep women uneducated and in the kitchen.
                        Despite her parents refusing to help in any way she has
                        dedicated herself to getting an education and saving
                        her siblings from the same fate. Please "vote" for her
                        essay about this to help her get a scholarship. As of
                        my writing of this blog post she has twice as many
                        votes as the second place entry, let's keep it up!

                        In her essay she states:

                            Then, I would love to create a safe-house where
                            children of religious homeschooling families can
                            come to improve their lives and future and have
                            hope.
                            From struggling with poverty, to being unable to
                            get a job without a resume or employment history,
                            and often a substandard education; the children of
                            the Quiverfull movement have extreme challenges to
                            overcome. A home like this would be a safe platform
                            for them to transition into the world without being
                            abandoned to struggle. Many of their parents wish
                            this difficulty for their children, saying it will
                            cause them to return and be content with the party
                            line. I want to create a buffer for the pain
                            parents cause when they shun and disinherit their
                            children for religious reasons.
                            Because there are more of us every day, and so much
                            pain and heartache.

                        Repost from Brian Sapient

                        Submitted by Sapient on Mon, 2012-11-12 12:22.

                          • Sapient's blog
                          • Login to post comments

                        Hurricane Sandy relief from Freethought Society

                        The Freethought Society, a group of freethinkers
                        founded by Margaret Downey near Philadelphia, Pa has
                        started an effort to provide relief to those affected
                        by Hurricane Sandy.

                        If you need assistance because you were impacted by
                        Hurricane Sandy, you can request help with the
                        Freehtought Society here.

                        If you would like to contribute to help Sandy victims,
                        click here.

                        What’s going on?

                        Hurricane Sandy has wreaked havoc from the Caribbean to
                        Canada. Many people are in urgent need of aid. The
                        Freethought Society is partnering with the Texas
                        Freethought Convention, the United Coalition of Reason
                        and Volunteers Beyond Belief to collect and distribute
                        money to help where needed. These groups each have
                        representatives on the Hurricane Sandy Emergency Relief
                        Fund Committee, who are all working as volunteers to
                        get financial assistance to victims as quickly as
                        possible.

                        The legal info:

                        The Freethought Society (FS) is a registered charitable
                        organization, legally authorized to collect and
                        distribute funds for charity. All contributions to
                        specific charity funds are tax-deductible to the full
                        extent permitted by the law. View our Certificate here:
                        RegisteredCharityPA

                        For updates on the fund please visit the fund’s
                        Facebook page: http://www.facebook.com/
                        HurricaneSandyEmergencyReliefFund

                        Please visit the website for more information, and to
User login              donate! http://www.ftsociety.org/2012/10/30/
                        hurricane-sandy-emergency-relief-fund/
Username: *
[               ]       Submitted by Sapient on Mon, 2012-11-05 08:45.
Password: *
[               ]         • Sapient's blog
[Log in]
                        Atheists come to the aid of a young girl who had the
  • Request new         courage to speak up.
    password
                        Hemant Mehta has started a college fund donation drive
Navigation              for Jessica Ahlquist. Kudos to Hemant!

  • Popular Atheists    Here is what Hemant had to say about Jessica:
  • create content
  • About Atheist           And if you saw Jessica’s speech at the 2011 Secular
    Volunteers              Student Alliance conference like I did, you’d
  • Donating                understand why we need more student activists just
  • News aggregator         like her. Once again, I’m asking for your support.
                            I think we owe it to Jessica to make sure she can
This site is part of        go to a wonderful college — one that respects her
the Rational Response       in a way that many of the people in her high school
Squad network of sites.     don’t — without having to worry about tuition.
Your username/password
will work at these          I spoke with Roy Speckhardt at the American
sites:                      Humanist Association to see if they would consider
                            holding onto the money in a trust fund (as part of
  • RationalResponders      the Humanist Foundation of the AHA) and he gave me
  • Free Thinking Teens     an enthusiastic “Yes.”
  • Way of the Master
  • Christmas               Let’s show Jessica that we appreciate what she’s
  • Ask Atheist Archive     done and let’s encourage other students to do the
  • Margaret Downey         same thing

Other sites...
                                             PLEASE DONATE
  • Celebrity Atheists         embed(http://widget.chipin.com/widget/id/
  • Brian Sapient                          8d0a74d899b36f56)
  • Comedy Jesus
  • Christian Pwnage
                        
     Grab an AV shirt   _____________
     for you and your
          group!        Jessica Ahlquist won her lawsuit against the Cranston
    [108208486v3_240x2] school district in Rhode Island.

                            PROVIDENCE, R.I. -- The high school student who
       [rationalsm]         sought the removal of a prayer mural from the
                            auditorium at Cranston High School West has won her
                            suit in federal court. U.S. District Court Judge
                            Ronald R. Lagueux, in a 40-page ruling issued
          [logob]           Wednesday on the lawsuit filed by Jessica
                            Ahlquist's father, Mark Ahlquist, has ordered the
                            "immediate" removal of the prayer mural, although
                            he has given Cranston school officials 10 days to
                            respond.

                                             [CranstonBa]

                        Throughout the lawsuit Jessica has had to deal with the
                        effects of a community that fought back against her.

                            For me, the insults and feeling of ostracism began
                            at the very beginning, when I attended my first
                            subcommittee meeting back in November of 2010. One
                            event that stands out in my mind was this one day
                            at school when Mayor Fung came in to give a talk
                            about minorities for “Diversity Week.” At the end
                            of his talk, there was a Q & A in which a student
                            asked for his opinion on the school prayer. He
                            pointed to the prayer and declared in front of
                            hundreds of students that he wanted to see the
                            prayer stay where it was and that it was perfectly
                            legal. Almost everyone in the auditorium stood and
                            applauded him, cheering him on. This was hurtful
                            and extremely upsetting, especially after the mayor
                            had just given a speech about how important
                            acceptance of minorities is. - Jessica Ahlquist
                            interview at a Bright Blog

                        She has had quite a few physical threats sent her way,
                        people have made sure she knows they want to hurt her.

                        Throughout all of it she has maintained a strong
                        attitude, and a strong will to get through it because
                        she knows what is right. She has a very sound
                        philosophical footing. She is on the path to greatness,
                        and the online community has gotten together to show
                        her just how awesome we think she is.

                        Submitted by Sapient on Mon, 2012-01-16 18:17.

                          • Sapient's blog
                          • Login to post comments

                        Kudos to the Reddit atheism community

                        The Reddit atheism community has become quite a force
                        over the last few years. They've recently added an
                        atheist faq, and they always have great atheist content
                        to peruse, make sure to check them out.

                        REDDIT ATHEISTS DONATE OVER $60,383 TO DOCTORS WITHOUT
                        BORDERS

                        The atheists on Reddit have managed to hit their goal
                        and raise over $60,000 for Doctors Without Borders!
                        They have moved their goal because giving is so much
                        fun, why stop? The new goal is $75,000!

                        It's nice to see the folks at reddit.com/r/atheism do
                        this in a way where their goodness can be seen by
                        theists. Atheists are often questioned as to whether
                        they are capable of being good people without religion.
                        The charitable and kind atheists of one community have
                        banded together and decided to show just how good
                        atheists are. Not only will we have the benefits of
                        countless people in need being helped, but we are
                        helping to change a stereotype. Some theists have been
                        told so adamantly that atheists can do no good, that
                        it's important for us to show what atheists already
                        know about each other. Atheists know that it's
                        important for us to do good because we would want
                        people to do good for us. We know that we are
                        responsible for our own actions. We know there is no
                        other force that can power goodness in the world other
                        than our own desire to be good.

                        Doctors without Borders is a charity that Atheist
                        Volunteers has previously supported.

                        Doctors Without Borders Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF)
                        is an international independent medical humanitarian
                        organization that delivers emergency aid to people
                        affected by armed conflict, epidemics, natural and
                        man-made disasters, and exclusion from health care in
                        more than 60 countries. A private, nonprofit
                        organization, Doctors Without Borders was founded in
                        1971 as the first non-governmental organization to both
                        provide emergency medical assistance and bear witness
                        publicly to the plight of people it assists. They do
                        not require you to convert to Christianity (or any
                        other religion) in order to receive medical care! A
                        secular charity worthy of our support and we have the
                        fine folks of Reddit

                        UPDATE: This article was published this morning and
                        donations were around $53,000. At the time of this
                        update reddit atheists managed to surpass their goal
                        and raise $60,383. By my count they raised about $7,000
                        in 10 hours.

                        UPDATE 2: Denny-Crane on reddit atheism said "it stood
                        at around $49,600 at 9am EST and is around $60,300
                        around 9:40pm EST"

                        Submitted by Sapient on Fri, 2011-11-18 12:26.

                          • Sapient's blog
                          • Login to post comments

                        Congratulations to Michael Park

                        Michael Park is an atheist who wanted to make a
                        difference. What started as a thing of fantasy became
                        reality for Michael as he raised $1,000 for the Special
                        Olympics and had a great time doing it.

                        On October 1st he posted the following on on his
                        facebook profile

                            We've all seen the classic Superman rescue, whether
                            in the movies, cartoons, or comic books. He leaps
                            out of a window, swoops down to catch a person, and
                            gently touches down on the pavement below. I never
                            thought that was that big a deal. He flies - it's
                            what he does. To me, the really cool characters
                            were the ones like Daredevil or Batman & Robin -
                            launching off of rooftops relying only on their
                            skills and a little bit of rope.

                            So when my employer offered the opportunity to
                            support Special Olympics by rappelling down a 30
                            story building, there was no way I could say no. I
                            get to swing down the side of a building AND help
                            people?!? This is about as close to being Batman as
                            I'm ever going to get. If I can meet my fundraising
                            goal of $1000 before October 20th, I will get to
                            rappel down the Mohegan Sun Casino Hotel.

                            So whether you want to support a great cause that
                            helps thousands of kids, help me fulfill a
                            childhood fantasy, or just like the idea of me
                            being pushed off a really tall building, please
                            donate whatever you can spare. Every little bit
                            helps. And even if you can't donate today, please
                            pass this along to as many friends as you can. -
                            Michael Park

                        [MichaelPar]

                        Congratulations Michael Park. You help show misguided
                        theists what we already know, that atheists do good
                        deeds.

                        Submitted by Sapient on Wed, 2011-10-26 14:23.

                          • Sapient's blog
                          • Login to post comments

                        A story from Ken about atheists doing good deeds...

                        May of 2009, FLASH member Matt Kirsch had an idea to
                        make packages with food, toiletries and lists of
                        clinics and shelters in the area. He brought them to
                        socials and gave them to members to carry with them and
                        hand out to someone needy. It's a very good gesture and
                        I informally named it "two hands working" from the Ben
                        Franklin Quote "two hands working do more than a
                        million clasped in prayer".

                        This week we had very low temperatures for South
                        Florida (35 degrees). Being South Florida, we are not
                        used to cold and the homeless find open areas to bed
                        down, mostly without any shielding from the elements.
                        The shelters fill up fast here in cool weather and with
                        a cold front bearing down on us, FLASH made a plea on
                        Facebook for donations to buy blankets, sleeping bags,
                        socks and food. In less than 24 hours we had $340.
                        Sports authority made us a great deal and I bought all
                        the polar fleece blankets they had (30) and from thrift
                        stores we found sleeping bags, blankets and coats, We
                        also bought packages of socks and gloves. We added some
                        food to hand out a meal with each set-up. We had enough
                        stuff to help 45 people.

                        Three of our members, Jarek Loovali, Susan Stoff and
                        Ray Loukinen volunteered to look for people that did
                        not get into the shelters. Unfortunately, they weren't
                        that hard to find. I would have much rather they
                        brought the stuff back because there were enough
                        shelters. But they found them, many with very little to
                        keep warm. The people were very grateful and
                        appreciative. It was also very good for these
                        volunteers. It is hard to do good for another and not
                        feel good yourself. Ray Loukinen said "We only had
                        about six "god bless you"s , I explained that "we are
                        atheists, but what's important is that you don't freeze
                        tonight"

                        FLASH members want to expand our efforts and we will
                        field new ideas. While it is not our mission to cure
                        homelessness, poverty and other social ills, we are
                        humanists and can't resist the needs of others. FLASH
                        also donates equipment and supplies to local schools in
                        lower income areas. Our purposes are state/ /church
                        issues, religion in schools, public image of
                        non-believers and forming communities for them.
                        Performing random acts of kindness is an idea that many
                        atheists around the world support.

                        Raising money is always tough, many times I rely on
                        "begging" FLASH member's to support these efforts. I
                        realize that homelessness is everywhere but if you can
                        help other south Floridians become aware of our
                        efforts, that would be a great plus. Also, FLASH likes
                        to meet atheists from everywhere, so if you are
                        visiting here, please contact us and attend one of our
                        socials... it's fun.

                        LINKS:

                        donations to local schools -
                        http://www.donorschoose.org/donors/proposal.html?id=
                        220888
                        http://www.donorschoose.org/donors/proposal.html?id=
                        250135
                        http://www.donorschoose.org/donors/proposal.html?id=
                        237117

                        To donate to flash use the paypal "donate" button at
                        the bottom of this page http://
                        www.freethoughtflorida.com/join.html

                        Ken Loukinen
                        President, FLorida Atheists and Secular Humanists
                        South Florida Regional Director, American Atheists

                        Bookmark/Search this post with:

                          • Delicious
                          • Digg
                          • StumbleUpon
                          • Reddit
                          • Facebook
                          • Technorati

                        Submitted by RationalRespons... on Tue, 2011-04-05
                        20:11.

                          • Login to post comments
                          • Delicious
                          • Digg
                          • StumbleUpon
                          • Reddit
                          • Facebook
                          • Technorati

                        1234next ›last »

Powered by Atheists

