Welcome to the nation's most morally active and innovative atheist
organization!

Hub of Atheism
                              Atheists For Human Rights
Check out our
HUB OF ATHEISM!
 
Home/Newsletter     Moral High Ground Project     Secular Sanity     Articles
     Videos
 
Public Forums     Calendar     About Us     Contact Us     Support Us     Links
 

The Moral Atheist
January-February
 
2016 - Happy New Year
 
MARIEALENA, COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR
 

Happy New Year to Everyone! This issue of The Moral Atheist is being snail
mailed and emailed this week. Lots of interesting stuff in it as the Contents
suggest. For a complete copy by snail mail or PDF, just send an email request
to here. We welcome your comments.

As many of you know, the signature activity of Atheists For Human Rights is our
Moral High Ground Project where we provide funds (not just lip service) to help
those who are victimized by our religion based laws. In December, we
distributed the funds to the recipients we have chosen to receive annual
grants. Here is our report:

 

OUR MORAL HIGH GROUND 2015 GRANTS

Our members were very supportive of our Moral High Ground project in 2015. In
December we made the following grants to recipients we have chosen to help. If
only we could do more!

CHILD (Children's Healthcare Is a Legal Duty): $500 plus donations from our
Winter Solstice charity of $900 for a total of $1,400. Rita and Doug Swan's
decades-long slog though state legislatures to repeal faith healing statutes
state by state has been torturous but they are succeeding. They have very
little support from other organizations because the nature of their fight
requires that they expose faith healing beliefs in all their insanity. It's not
politically correct to do that and few legislators want to question "deeply
held religious beliefs" even when children suffer and die from them when faith
healing replaces medical care.

Philanthrofund Foundation (PFund): $500 to help pay tuition for a GLBT student.
The sexual minorities are winning their fight and we are proud to have stood
with them every year since 2002. We are the only freethought group we know of
that does this. Each year we meet the recipient of our grant at a PFund event
where we are welcomed as atheists and appreciated. It's good to show the
victims of religion-based laws who their real friends are.

Final Exit Network: $500 plus an expected cost of about $700 to produce an
amicus brief to help FEN appeal its recent conviction for "assisting a
suicide." The court decided that to talk compassionately to a person who wanted
(with good reason) to do a self-deliverance was the same as physically
assisting them. FEN says it was free speech that basically repeated information
available in Derek Humphry's best-seller Final Exit.

Abortion clinics: $700 each to four of them. They are in areas where physical
and legal assaults are constant. They wear bulletproof vests to work, kept
going after Dr. Tiller and others were murdered, costly regulations are piled
on to put them out of business, heavy security measures are an ongoing
necessity, they are or soon may be the only clinic left in the state. It is
low-key terrorism that patriarchal legislators do nothing about. The clinics
are: South Wind Women's Clinic, Wichita KS; Germantown Reproductive Health
Services, Germantown MD; Red River Women's Clinic, Fargo ND; Chicago Abortion
Fund, Chicago IL. We are proud to stand with women to help protect their
rights.

Texas Freedom Network: $200 for this recent addition to our MHG recipients. It
was suggested by AFHR members around the country who are familiar with their
work. The laws of Texas are or are aiming to be a model of ignorance-based
education, head-in-the-sand sexual restrictions, and antebellum social controls
that conform to fundamentalist religious beliefs. TFN is building an effective
organization to counter this and our members thought we should help. We agree.

So our MHG outlay for 2015, including the Winter Solstice CHILD charity and the
Final Exit Network amicus costs totaled about $6100. We are happy to be able to
afford that. Better this real help than a building and/or salaries we don't
need. Other than expenses for The Moral Atheist, office supplies, Internet
services, etc., what you donate to AFHR goes entirely to helping undo the harm
god-nazi forms of religion inflict on so many of us.

Our civic duty for 2016: Work to put politicians in office who know the value
of keeping religion out of government and off our backs. The article on page 4
might help. Read. Think. Act.

 
 

 

First Things First and Why Voting Comes Last: What Kind of           [election]
Candidates Can Preserve Secular Values and How Do We Get Them? (p.
4)

 

 

Atheists Standing their Ground: A Debate on Drugs and Race (p. 6)

 
[drugs]                               [race]

 

In the Jan-Feb issue of The Moral Atheist

 

3    AFHR Report
      
     The 2016 Elections: Advice from Atheist-Humanist Organizations, and All of
4    it is Wrong
     MarieAlena Castle
      
     We Won! Marriage Certificate of Filing is
5    Church-Free
     MarieAlena Castle
      
     AFHR Members Debate Drugs and Race
6    Oliver Steinberg, Niles Ross, Sandy Beitsch, Tim Gorski
      
     Apologetics: Iron Clad Proof of Error
9    Stephen Van Eck
      
     Fundamentalism, the Titanic, and the KKK
10   Jon Nelson
      
     CHRISTIANITY IN ITS OWN WORDS
12   "Help! I'm Being Repressed!" Part 6
     William Sierichs Jr.
      
14   The Code of Hammurabi — But No Ten Commandments?!
      
15   Winter Solstice Party Report
      
     WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON HERE?
16   Breaking News
     Bill van Druten
      
17   THE BOOKSHELF
      
18   THE LETTERS DESK
      
20   THE NETWORK
      
22   SUPPORTERS' BENEFITS
      
23   THE HUB CALENDAR
      
     BACK COVER: Looking for Terrorism in All the Wrong Places
      

 
 
[ssmarriage]

Atheists For Human Rights now certifies Atheist Wedding Celebrants

All-atheist authorization nationwide.*

We no longer need a contrived church affiliation to solemnize marriages.

Select one of our registered celebrants or choose a friend or family member to
officiate at your wedding. We will provide that person with atheist
certification at no charge.

 

We can help.

Call 612-529-1200 or email Communications Director

To Our Fellow Freethought Organizations:

We offer document templates and information at no charge so you can authorize
your own celebrants.

Create memorable weddings that reflect secular values.
 
* Ask how this might apply in your state.
 

The Best Policy Guide for a Religiously Neutral
Secular Nation

[Culture_Wars]

The first full-size book by AFHR Communications Director Marie Alena Castle,
published by See Sharp Press, Tucson AZ, and written at their request.

All proceeds go to support AFHR outreach activities. Available from Barnes and
Noble in stores and on-line, and from Amazon.com. Cover price $14.95, 236 pp.


"Culture Wars is an engaging, compelling and important book. The public is so
unaware how fragile our constitutional rights are. The book reminds me of our
military men and women who return to the states as amputees and then speak
strongly against intolerance because they understand that's what the fight was
all about."
— Andrew Dawkins, Minneapolis MN. Attorney, former Minnesota state legislator


"Culture Wars is brilliant, readable, to the point, and thorough. Marie Alena
Castle has given us a timely book that deserves a wide and serious readership."
— Cecil Bothwell, Asheville NC councilmember, author of The Prince of War:
Billy Graham's Crusade for a Wholly Christian Empire.


"Over the years I have read many books on this subject, but Culture Wars stands
head and shoulders above the crowd."
— Earl Lee, librarian, author of Libraries in the Age of Mediocrity.


"I was amazed and entranced by Ms. Castle's breadth of knowledge, her passion
and compassion, and clear-headed convictions."
— Arvonne Fraser, former U.S. Ambassador to the United States Commission on the
Status of Women.


"The author's grasp of theology and understanding of its irrelevance to how we
live are impressive. This is rare in books about religion."
— Kirk Buchanan, former Roman Catholic priest.

 
Check out our signature activity,
our Moral High Ground Fund
It's the only one in the country to help poor women pay for abortions, and to
support gays and other groups victimized by religion-based laws.
 
Check out our list of donor premiums!
No trinkets, mugs, or t-shirts —
just things to satisfy your mind.
 


ArticlesTop of Page

  • No legal protection for kids in faith-healing families: why most states
    sanction religion-based child sacrifice
    Rita Swan and her husband Doug were Christian Scientists until the death of
    their son made them determined to prevent other child deaths by repealing
    religious exemption laws.
  • Your money and/or your life: mugged by the mythmakers
    — the price we pay for religion
    A summary of what religion costs YOU in terms of your money, your personal
    freedom, your health, and sometimes even your very life.
  • How Judge John E. Jones put intelligent design on the path to extinction
    A conservative U.S. District Judge strikes a stunning blow against
    intelligent design and creationism.
  • The Theological Roots of Everything Ugly About America
    How the toxic roots of puritanical ideas poisoned a potentially beautiful
    thing.
  • Damned if we do, damned if we don't: the atheist dilemma
    If atheists object to state-church violations, they invite a backlash; if
    they do nothing, they are hated for simply being who they are.

  • CNN invites us to discuss whether "God" exists
    — and stacks the deck
    Given the opportunity for a serious discussion, CNN presented bias and
    Christian propaganda.
  • The Godless rise as a political force
    Nonbelievers represent a growing segment of the U.S. electorate.
  • Budget woes and how local activism may get churches to pay up
    Charging churches a fee for city services may now be not only thinkable but
    doable
  • 600+ years of fakery: the Shroud of Turin
    Scientific evidence supports a medieval origin of the Shroud of Turin.
  • The two words that don't belong
    In 1892, Francis Bellamy, a Baptist minister, wrote The Pledge of
    Allegiance, which contained no mention of God.
  • Reason vs. Faith
    Faith is belief without — or in spite of contradictory — empirical
    evidence.
  • Elk Grove v. Newdow [PDF file]
    The Amicus curiae brief submitted by Michael Newdow to the US Supreme
    Court, arguing that it should strike the words "under God" from the Pledge
    of Allegiance. [PDF file]


About UsTop of Page

Our Philosophy
 
Atheism accepts the natural world as all there is. To live without god beliefs
is intellectually stimulating. To find one's own purpose and be responsible for
one's own life is exciting. To be free of the imagined surveillance of good and
evil spirits is liberating. To seek a peaceful world through work and
friendship and civic action is life-affirming.
-- MarieAlena Castle, March 1994
 
It is the role of unbelievers to force religions to be benign.
-- Martin Marty, Lutheran theologian, Minneapolis MN,
   28 April 1998
 
Let us become post-religious, post-national Universal Humans.
-- Lavanam, Atheist Centre, India
 

Atheists For Human Rights is a national, ethics-driven organization upholding
an atheism that is confidently held, morally active, and vigorously opposes
religions that are politically and socially predatory or harm innocent people.

  • We are committed to making atheism visible in the community as a rational,
    responsible voice for secular morality.
  • We sponsor well-advertised public forums regularly with well known speakers
    on topics related to the common good and maintaining a secular government.
  • We run high-visibility "bold & proud" ads for our activities in mainstream
    newspapers and on radio.
  • We produce atheist videos for our website video outreach project and also
    make them available on CDs.
  • We submit letters and commentary articles to the media that are frequently
    accepted.
  • We meet with media people to discuss our concerns and encourage fair and
    balanced coverage of atheism.
  • We meet with public officials to make them aware of the secular community
    and express our concerns about the intrusion of religion into legislative
    action and to stress the importance of state-church separation.
  • We wrote a proclamation declaring 4 July 2002, "Indivisible Day," which was
    signed by Gov. Ventura on our behalf, causing an uproar by "Christian
    nation" fundamentalists that was front-page news in the St. Paul and
    Minneapolis papers.
  • Our visibility generates invitations to debate religious-right radio talk
    show hosts on their political/social agenda and state-church separation.
  • We are unique among atheist organizations in that, as a matter of official
    policy, we oppose the religious right's assaults on our freedoms and come
    to the aid of its victims. We do this with reason, civility, pride, and a
    passion for truth and justice.
  • We provide a strong and effective voice for human rights within the atheist
    community and are developing a national network of citizens who seek the
    social and political right to be religion-free. We walk the talk. Our board
    consists of activists willing to help with the tasks of our organization.
    Our bylaws impose a high level of ethical standards. We operate openly and
    honestly at all times.
  • Membership is open to all who reject supernatural beliefs and support the
    principles and policies of this organization. We thrive on new ideas and
    welcome everyone who shares our goals.

 

Magazine

As usual, we offer 3 free issues of The Moral Atheist full 24-page magazine, by
postal or email, so you get a good idea of what we are all about. Just send
your postal or email contact info to: Communications Director

Moral High Ground Project

The Moral High Ground project has chosen the following funds to provide support
and protection for these groups and to counter the efforts of religious zealots
to impose their religious doctrines through law (other funding mechanisms may
be added as resources increase):

Philanthrofund scholarship

Like the other Moral High Ground funding projects, it is unique in the
freethought community. Each year since 2002 AFHR has donated $500 to be awarded
to a GLBT openly atheist student at Pfund's major awards ceremony. This has
created visibility and respect for AFHR within the GLBT community.

Grants to poor women to help pay for abortions

At least $200 each is given annually to funds such as the Women's Medical Fund,
administered by Anne Nicol Gaylor from Freedom From Religion Foundation in
Madison, Wisconsin, and through the North Dakota WIN (Women In Need) Abortion
Access Fund, administered by the Red River Women's Clinic in Fargo. These funds
serve poor women in areas where religion-generated abortion laws are
irrationally restrictive and punitive.

Support for physician aid in dying

As opportunities arise, we support efforts by physician-aid-in-dying
organizations so the terminally ill who want to die with dignity on their own
terms have the legal right to do so.

Protection for children harmed by faith healing

As opportunities arise, we support the efforts of CHILD (Children's Healthcare
Is a Legal Duty) to protect children from harm where state laws define faith
healing as healthcare and exempt parents from prosecution when they allow
children to die by substituting prayer for medical care.

 

Outreach Activities

Atheists for Human Rights is focused primarily on reaching out to the public in
morally active ways to advance the atheistic worldview.

Charitable Outreach

We donate to secular charities that help young people and the homeless.

Highway Cleanup

In 2005 we took on an Adopt-A-Highway cleanup project. The work is done three
times a year in spring, summer and fall. Large highway signs identify AFHR as
the cleanup crew for a 4-mile stretch of highway in Lakeville that passes many
churches.

Minnesota Alliance Of Peacemakers

We joined MAP and have participated in several of their events urging peaceful
solutions to world conflicts. MAP is a coalition of churches and secular
organizations working together in the cause of peace.

Interfaith Dialogue

AFHR is represented by invitation at regular interfaith gatherings hosted by
Rep. Keith Ellison, the first Muslim elected to Congress, to find common ground
in our common humanity to address the causes of social conflict and stress.

Speakers Bureau

Since 2004, about three times a year, we have been invited to give
presentations on atheism to educational and social service agencies for their
diversity training programs. Videos of all speakers here.

Fireside Chats

These monthly discussions about atheist issues are occasions for socializing as
well as developing ideas for further activism.

Public Forums

This major outreach project was begun in June 2006 and continues. The purpose
is to show the public how atheists support our constitutional freedoms, seek
rational solutions to issues of civic concern, and promote the common good.
These events are heavily advertised in local newspapers and on Air America
radio.


Hub of AtheismTop of Page

[domeBF] [HubMeetingRm2] [HubMeetingRm1]

Welcome to the
Hub of Atheism!

 

Atheists For Human Rights has a geodesic dome as its headquarters. This unique
architecture was developed by Buckminster ("Bucky") Fuller (1895-1983), an
atheist, architect, environmentalist, and inventor. His ambition was to use
science to help solve human problems and to find ways to do more with less.

The tragic death of his young daughter inspired him to find "what a single
individual can contribute to changing the world and benefiting all humanity."
The epitaph on Fuller's tombstone says, "Call me trimtab," referring to a small
but critical aircraft part that holds a stabilizing component in position.

Much of Fuller's philosophy is expressed in the goals and strivings of Atheists
For Human Rights.


Contact UsTop of Page

LOCATION:
5146 Newton Ave. N.
Minneapolis MN 55430-3459

If you need directions, call:
612-529-1200
or
1-866-ATHEIST
or email:
Communications Director.

Leave us a voicemail by calling:

612-DAMN-Y'ALL (612-326-6925)

 

Phone messages may be used on our website.

EMAIL CONTACTS:

  • Webmaster for corrections or problems with our web pages.
  • Communications Director for all other questions.

 

Letters and articles are welcome!


CalendarTop of Page

 

If you are not a regular attendee, call to find out if the schedule has
changed.

 

Mondays:
5:00 to 6:30 PM
Happy Hour
Ol' Mexico Restaurant, on Lexington, two blocks north of Larpenteur, Roseville.
Call Paul Craven, 763-788-8918.

 

1st Tuesdays
11:30 AM
Lunch Social
Old Country Buffet, County Road. B2, (east of Fairview). Roseville.
Bob & Marilyn Nienkerk, 612-866-6200.

 

1st & 3rd Mondays
6:30 PM
Toastmasters
Larpenteur Estates party room, 1276 Larpenteur Ave. W., St. Paul.
George Kane, 651-488-8225.

 

3rd Wednesdays
11:30 AM
Charley French Memorial Lunch
Dragon House restaurant, 3970 Central Ave. NE, Columbia Heights.
Private room.
Bill Volna, 612-781-1420 or 1322.

 

FIRESIDE CHAT

Fireside Chat

3rd Fridays
6-9+ PM.
Hub of Atheism, 5146 Newton Ave. N., Minneapolis
Call (612) 588-1597 or
email Communications Director

Always free food and beverages.

 

15 January:
Here's a movie to make you think. It's "Ex Machina" — about artificial
intelligence. If you saw it when it came out, see it again and let's talk about
it. The DVD starts at about 7 PM.

 

19 February:
February is Darwin Month (his birthday anniversary is 12 February) so the DVD
will focus on science. It's "The Martian" — so rational and humanistic and
exciting to watch! No bad guys! Only the unforgiving uninhabitable planet Mars
as the enemy — and it lost!

 
 

MEETUPS

Twin Cities Meetups
Email Scott Muir, Video Manager or visit Twin Cities Atheists

Southern Minnesota Meetups
Email Crystal Dervetski

 

MEMBERS/SUPPORTERS MEETINGS

Local: Ad hoc discussions at social events.
National: Announcements and discussions on AFHRbod Yahoo Groups, first 10 days
of the month. To get on the list, just give us your email address. Significant
issues discussed are covered in The Moral Atheist for reader feedback. It's all
open. Decisions, if needed, are formed by consensus if possible.

 

TWIN CITIES PUBLIC ACCESS

Our videos are played in Minneapolis and St. Paul on public access stations.
In Minneapolis, they are on MTN Ch. 75 at 7:30 PM. Mondays and other "fill-in"
times.
In St. Paul, they are on SPNN Ch 15 at 6 PM; Tuesdays and Wednesdays at 1 AM
and 11 AM.
Thanks to Paul Craven for handling this.


LinksTop of Page

  • American Atheists
  • American Freethought
  • Americans United for Separation of Church and State
  • Atheist Foundation of Australia Inc
  • Atheists of Silicon Valley
  • Born Atheist
  • Campus Atheists, Skeptics, and Secular Humanists (CASH)

  • Children's Healthcare Is a Legal Duty, Inc (CHILD)
  • Euthanasia World Directory (ERGO)
  • Final Exit Network
  • Freedom From Religion Foundation
  • Friends Free of Theism
  • IBKA Political Guide
  • Minnesota Atheists
  • Pharyngula
  • The Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science

Top of Page

 
