Lancaster Freethought Society

Promoting positive atheism and the separation of church and state.
[cropped-atheist_banner21]
Skip to content

  • Home
  • About Us
  • Calendar
  • Lending Library
  • Helpful Links
      □ Secular Charities
  • LFS Store
  • Donate
  • Contact Us
  • Pasthacon pictures

← Older posts

Adopt a Highway 2015 wrap up

Posted on November 4, 2015 by Jessica Zellers

It was a beautiful fall day in late October when we wrapped up our first year
for Adopt a Highway. We also had our largest turn out of the year. This was our
first time returning to the same area, and repetition is a good thing.

Also a huge thanks to PAN members who came and helped with our clean up, 
slightly out numbering LFS members. Our challenge for next year is to have at
least matching numbers with PAN.

20151024_122457

On to next year and towards our 10 year participation addition to our sign, one
year down.

Print Friendly
Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment

Adopt a Highway Recap July 25

Posted on August 23, 2015 by Jessica Zellers

I’ve been told that belated birthday wishes, thank you notes and the like are
better late than never.  Hopefully those who volunteered and supported our last
Adopt a Highway clean up heard the same thing.

20150725_140834 20150725_140920

Our last clean up was a fantastic success. The weather was far better than our
first. The signs were squared away. Everyone was armed with extended grabbers.
Our territory was clarified, and smaller than last time. Our long pants were
practical. Our trash bags were filled.

20150725_144100

 

 

So to all those who showed up or supported, thank you all very much. For those
who missed out on the chance, there’s another one coming up.

 

20150725_135424

Planning ahead, the State Conference is coming up and we don’t want to take up
too many weekends all together. So we’re looking at the end of September for
our next clean up. Probably September 26 or October 3. Let us know if one
weekend works better than another.

 

 

 

Print Friendly
Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment

Adopt a Highway June 27th clean up

Posted on June 11, 2015 by Jessica Zellers

Come join us for our Adopt A Highway Cleanup!

[600_434915]

Please visit Meetup for location and meeting details.

Our clean up area is the interchange at PA-222 and PA-30. This is a great
location! Not only will we all be cleaning up in one area instead of walking 2
miles of roadway, but we will be safely off the highway and our sign is located
alongside the PA-222 exit onto PA-30. Cars slow down to navigate this sharp
bend, and during rush hours, cars move by our sign at a crawl. Not so great for
commuters but great exposure for us!

This is where we need YOU! Having a good turnout of volunteers is vital!

[600_438535]

More hands to share the work. More people, more fun. Lancaster Freethought
Society was founded to build community. This is a great chance to get outside,
talk with people like you and get a little exercise to burn off the Pub Night
calories.

If you wish to be involved in this service project, you must RSVP by June 25nd.
Currently the meet up time is 11am, there is some flexibility – mostly later.
If we’ll get more people by moving the time, that is definitely possible. Just
leave comments. The only time constrain is we need to be finished by 1 hour
before sunset, PennDOT rules.

Please do not go directly to the intersection!  Safety rules state that we need
to meet at a nearby location and carpool to the interchange so that there are
not too many vehicles parked alongside the road. Those with vehicles that can
fit a lot of people are encouraged to bring them as carpool vehicles.

All that RSVP “Yes” will be sent directions to our meetup place where we will
hand out vests and show a short safety video before we head out. Directions to
this location will be provided June 26th to those who sign up by the deadline.


Please sign up and we hope to see you there!

Print Friendly
Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment

Lancaster Freethought Society Adopt-a-Highway — Moving on

Posted on May 6, 2015 by Jessica Zellers

In March we had our first Adopt a Highway clean up. There was a bit of learning
curve in the whole process. We only got to one of our four sections at the
interchange, due to an issue with road signs. However, thanks to PennDOT that
issue has been resolved and we can now get to the other sections that are
desperately in need of attention.

[Lancaster-Free-Thought-300x168]  20150328_132718 20150328_125045 
20150328_125108

The clean up is a very simple – see trash, walk around and bag it. We’re ready
to proceed with our second clean up, we just need to set a date. Probably May
or early June, bring your weekend plans to the next meeting – we’ll be
discussing dates!

Print Friendly
Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment

Religious Vaccine Exemptions Leave Pennsylvania Children Vulnerable

Posted on March 21, 2015 by Scott Rhoades

Vaccine Exemptions Leave Pennsylvania Children Vulnerable

  • Vaccines help prevent countless deaths by eradicating deadly diseases. The
    immunizations children receive, especially those for measles, pertussis,
    and mumps, help prevent them from catching life threatening diseases. A
    concerted vaccination campaign can lead to the elimination of certain
    deadly diseases, such as smallpox, if momentum is maintained at home and
    abroad.
  • Religious and personal belief exemptions are surging. Currently in
    Pennsylvania, religious and personal belief exemptions from vaccines vastly
    outnumber medical exemptions. Numbers from the Pennsylvania Department of
    Public Health show that in kindergarteners, there are nearly 510 medical
    exemptions compared to 2,552 nonmedical exemptions, 1,133 of which are
    religious exemptions and 1,149 which are personal belief exemptions.
  • Lower vaccination rates lead to more children and vulnerable populations
    getting sick with preventable diseases. Children with medical exemptions or
    who are too young to receive vaccines depend on their vaccinated peers and
    communities to keep them from catching these potentially fatal illnesses.
    When children are opted out of vaccines for nonmedical reasons, they put
    those who can’t receive them at risk for severe illness and possibly death.
    Pregnant women who catch measles can also be at risk for miscarriages since
    their immunity is lowered.

Join the Immunize Pennsylvania Coalition!

The State Has an Obligation to Public Health

  • The state has a duty and compelling interest to ensure a healthy
    population. It is the state’s primary responsibility to enact laws related
    to ensure public well-being, safety, and order. This includes a commitment
    to public health through regulating food and medicine, licensing medical
    professionals, and working to eradicate deadly diseases through education
    and mandatory vaccination. Maintaining public health standards is necessary
    to ensure a prosperous society.
  • Mandating vaccinations passes the rational basis test articulated by the
    Supreme Court. Mandatory vaccination laws do not single out one particular
    group, instead focusing on making sure that everybody who can be vaccinated
    is vaccinated to protect those whose immune systems are weak or
    compromised. A federal judge in New York City recently ruled “that
    religious objectors are not constitutionally exempt from vaccinations.”
  • The more people who get sick, the higher the burden is on the rest of the
    populace. When a child becomes sick, it not only disrupts their education
    but also the education of any unvaccinated classmates who are forced to
    stay home by the school district. It impacts parents, who need to stay home
    from work to supervise their children or find somebody who can take care of
    them. The Centers for Disease Control, looking at the data from 2011 when
    only 107 were infected with measles, estimated that the outbreak cost
    taxpayers up to $5.3 million dollars. With the current measles outbreak
    nearly reaching that number in Pennsylvania, taxpayers can expect to pay at
    least that much if not more before the outbreak ends.

Religious Exemptions Must Be Removed Too

  • Leaving the religious exemption privilege’s one religious group over
    another. Very few religious groups object to vaccinations on religious
    grounds. Leaving religious exemptions intact could lead to parents
    attempting to gain exemptions by claiming a religious belief. This would
    leave the state in the uncomfortable position of having to judge which
    religious beliefs are sincerely held and which are not. The best way to
    ensure fairness across the board is to eliminate all nonmedical exemptions.
  • Two states currently have no religious or personal belief exemptions for
    vaccines. Mississippi and West Virginia are the only two states without any
    vaccine exemptions for religious or personal beliefs. An attempt to add
    religious exemptions to Mississippi’s statute failed, highlighting how
    important protecting the public health is.
  • A child’s health and well being takes precedent over a parent’s beliefs. 
    The U.S. Supreme Court has made it clear that the right to practice one’s
    faith does not extend to the point where children’s health and safety are
    jeopardized. The Court ruled in Prince v. Massachusetts that parents’
    religious beliefs do not give them a constitutional right to engage in
    practices that compromise a child’s health or safety.

Contact your state representative right away and let them know that you are
against religious vaccine exemptions!

Find your PA legislator!

 

Print Friendly
Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment

Religion in Schools: Why Faculty Should Keep Their Religious Observances Out of
The Classroom

Posted on February 26, 2015 by Scott Rhoades

By LFS Contributor Brian Gibson

Empty Classroomm

One issue that comes up often, whether in debate or legal actions, is the
question of whether public school teachers and administration officials should
be permitted to engage in religious activities with their students during
school. I’ve had this debate with fair frequency in discussions with religious
friends and acquaintances, who often take the position that denying teachers
this venue is an imposition on the instructors’ religious freedoms. This is
frequently supplemented with the argument that everyone, teachers and
administrators included, should be permitted to express their religious views
at school as a means of furthering debate. These are both, in my opinion,
highly specious arguments.

Firstly, when a teacher attempts to lead their students in any religious
activity, this does not constitute an exercise of their own religious freedoms
so much as it is an imposition on those of the students. Like it or not, when
acting as a teacher in a public school, the teacher does not speak merely for
themselves. They represent the authority of the government in the most tangible
manifestation most children encounter prior to adulthood. And that authority is
constitutionally barred from being used to tell people what religious position
they should adopt.
Teachers, on their own time and as private citizens, are entitled to have and
promote whatever religious position they like. But when they are “on the clock”
as government authorities, they are bound by the strictures the law places on
government.

Secondly, the “fair debate” argument holds no water because it simply is not
possible to have a fair debate in a school setting when the teachers and
administrators are allowed to take a side. You have to realize what teachers
and school administrators are: they are trained public speakers, often with
years of experience and specialized education specifically aimed at persuading
young people to accept what they are saying. The “fair debate,” argument
proposes to take such people, cloak them in government authority, and set them
loose against children in an environment where they are isolated from their
parents and guardians for hours at a time and their future success is perceived
to be dependent on the good opinion of their instructors. To grant that
teachers and administrators can advocate their religious positions under such
conditions can be nothing more than an indoctrination exercise.

One might argue that, so long as everybody is allowed to advocate for their
beliefs, it will all even out. That might be true if all views were evenly
represented in the population, and no social pressures existed to favor
adherents of one view over another. But that doesn’t reflect reality. The fact
is that the vast majority of Americans are Christian of some denomination or
another, which emphasizes proselytization to a greater degree than many other
religious positions. Furthermore, many people live in communities where real
social penalties are enacted against those who express minority religious
opinions, which would further suppress their ability to advocate openly for
their views. The sheer weight of numbers slants the debate. In most schools
throughout the US, an “open debate” policy allowing faculty to advocate their
religion to students would be a de facto government endorsement of
Christianity.

But even if you could ensure the debate would truly be fair and representative,
it would be problematic for another reason. And that is that people would be
using the authority of their government position to wage ideological campaigns
for the religious sensibilities of other people’s children. It pits educators
against each other, and against the parents of the children, in ways that are
totally inappropriate for the furtherance of public education.

Now, to many who advocate in favor of having teachers carry on such debates,
the fact that they can’t possibly be fair is a benefit, because their real goal
is to use the school setting to indoctrinate other people’s children into
Christianity. To many others, the idea simply seems benign because they are
already Christian and don’t mind having that idea reinforced to their children
at school. Many have discovered, though, that just because two people share the
same generic religious label does not mean they actually believe the same
things. Imagine how a religious parent would feel to have their child come home
and tell them that their teacher says they’re going to hell because they are
the wrong kind of Christian. That sort of thing tends to shed a whole new light
on the debate for those parents.

These arguments are equally applicable to atheism. An atheist teacher should no
more be using their position in school to tell children their gods don’t exist
than a religious one should be using it to tell them they do.

Government neutrality, the separation of church and state, exists for very good
reasons. It protects the rights of religious minorities, and it also protects
the rights of the majorities. Not least because people may perceive themselves
to be in the majority when they actually aren’t, but also because demographic
changes all but guarantee that no group remains the majority forever. It is not
safe for anyone to assume that the power to enforce a religious viewpoint on a
population will always be used to enforce their viewpoint, no matter how much
they think they enjoy the majority position at the moment. Battles for
religious supremacy can only be harmful, and nowhere is this truer than when
the battleground is the halls that are meant to shelter and educate our
children.

The views expressed by the author are not necessarily those of the Lancaster
Freethought Society or any of its members.

Print Friendly
Posted in Guest Posts, Thoughts, Uncategorized | Leave a comment

March 28th, Adopt-A-Highway – Lancaster Freethought Society Adopts a Highway!

Posted on February 15, 2015 by Jessica Zellers

If you are very alert while driving around Lancaster, this will not be news. If
you’ve been following the application updates at meetings over the past year or
so, this is a wonderful announcement.

 

PA-222 & PA-30

PA-222 & PA-30

We’ve been looking for an ongoing community-based service project.
Adopt-a-Highway programs are well known and in nearly every state. Local groups
(Scouting troops, Chambers of Commerce, Rotatory club or your friendly
neighborhood gathering of reality enthusiasts) pick up little along a section
of road or highway interchange and in exchange get that group’s name on a sign
by the road.

Our piece of road is the interchange at PA-222 and PA-30.
Pennsylvania’s  version of Adopt-a-Highway operates in 2 year terms. So as long
as we do our required four clean ups a year, and I do the paperwork with
PennDOT. Then the sign will look like that for the next two years. This is
where we need YOU!

Having a good turnout of volunteers is vital. More hands to share the work.
More people, more fun. Lancaster Freethought Society was founded to build
community. This is a great chance to get out, talk with people like you and get
a little exercise to burn off the Pub Night calories.

The first pick-up is scheduled for Saturday March 28th, we’ll meet up about
11am near the intersection. All groups that have adopted a highway have a
pick-up in March or April to support the Great American Clean up. There are a
few logistical details to decide over the coming meeting and two Pub Nights.
However, we have our date. So mark the calendar, put a reminder on your cell
phone or just plain save the date.

Come be a part of the first Highway clean-up and a big group picture under out
sign. Oh! I nearly forgot, the wonderful announcement I mentioned at the top –
we finally got approved, the sign is up.

Print Friendly
Posted in Events | 1 Comment

2015 Pennsylvania Atheist Humanist Conference (PASTHACon) – Harrisburg, PA
September 11th – 13th, 2015

Posted on December 22, 2014 by Scott Rhoades

AtheistPA-logo3

 

Harrisburg, Pennsylvania

September 11th-13th, 2015

 

BEST WESTERN PREMIER
The Central Hotel & Conference Center

800 East Park Drive
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, USA 17111

Come join us for the fourth annual PA State Atheist Humanist Conference
(PASTHACon)! We’ll be back in Harrisburg this year and are working on making
this year the best one yet!

Our speakers for this year include the members of the “Unholy Trinity Tour”,
master debater Matt Dillahunty of the popular “Atheist Experience” TV show,
vlogger Aron Ra whose YouTube channel has over 100,000 subscribers, and Seth
Andrews of the vastly popular “Thinking Atheist” Podcast.  Keep an eye on our
great speaker list as we add to it as we get closer to the conference.

Get your tickets for PASTHACon 2015 now!

Standard tickets include full access to the plenary conference (Friday night,
Saturday, and Sunday), as well as the entertainment Friday and Saturday.

VIP tickets include a special meal with the stars of the conference as well as
a T-shirt, goodie bag, and access to our hospitality suite with snacks,
refreshments, and the occasional opportunity to hang out with the speakers in a
more personal setting.

Although Lancaster is only a short drive from the hotel, we have also arranged
for a special room price of only $99.95/night for those choosing to stay at the
hotel during the conference! Just enter our special group code when booking
online or on the phone.

Hope to see you there!

image001

CentralHotel

Print Friendly
Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment

Monthly Meeting Minutes 11/04/2013

Posted on November 11, 2013 by Tom

 

13 Freethinker’s attended a meeting of the Lancaster Freethought Society held
on Monday, 11/04/2013 from 6 to 8 PM at Isaac’s Restaurant, Manheim Pike,
Lancaster, PA.

The meeting began with the current LFS Board Member Secretary welcoming the new
and attendees. The subject of this months discussion was concerned with the
current pending vote on Pennsylvania House Bill 1728, which had cleared
committee by a vote of 14-9. The bill is meant to introduce into our public
school buildings the national motto “In God We Trust”. The bill was introduced
into the PA Education Committee by Rick Saccone as the primary sponser. Rep.
Rick Saccone was also a sponsor of the “Year of the Bible” for 2013 (PA HB 922)
so he is clearly suspect of promoting religion.

We discussed the the following issues of this proposed legislation:

 1. The promotion of a religious rather than a historical message.

 2. The waste of valuable educational funds.

 3. The impression of state sponsored religious message.

 4. The divisiveness of the motto.

 5. What you can say to your representative.

 6. The coverage of this issue in the local news.

If you chose to appeal to your local House of Representative’s, now is the
time. You may want to use this as a guide:

PA House Bill 1728 is unnecessary and divisive. There is no need to impose
burdens on public schools to symbolically affirm our national motto when it is
under no threat in the first place. This bill claims: “To increase student
understanding of and familiarity with American historical documents,
historically important excerpts from or copies of the documents should be
prominently displayed in public school buildings.” However, it only mentions
the current national motto. A reasonable person would see that this motto is a
proclamation of faith. Currently up to 20% the United States population
identify themselves as non-religious. Should we not err on the side of caution
and not open our public schools to the on going debate concerning the
separation of church and state? This could open our schools to other
“historical” messages that maybe you would not agree with? Please think about
how others would feel that may not especially agree with placing this motto
within our public schools.

The meeting ended at about 8 PM with some attendees remaining to discuss
relevant issues.

Upcoming Events:

12/02/13 -LFS Monthly Meeting at Isaac’s @ 6 PM

All of the above are advertised at Meetup.com. Please RSVP for these events.

Print Friendly
Posted in Meetings | Leave a comment

PA House Bill 1728 “In God We Trust”?

Posted on November 1, 2013 by Tom

House Bill 1728  passed the committee and will be scheduled for a vote.  The
purpose of the bill introduced is to place “In God We Trust” in all public
school buildings.  The bill is supposedly meant to support an historical
message when, in fact, it is a religious message.  The PA House Representative
Saccone has again decided to push the religious agenda upon the secular and the
sectarian citizens of Pennsylvania by continually breaching the “wall of
separation“.  Not all citizens of PA wish to have religious messages displayed
in public schools.  An unofficial poll (view results) at Pennlive.com cites an
84% disapproval of Mr. Saccone’s idea or should I say personal ideal!

Article 6 states :“To increase student understanding of and familiarity with
American historical documents, historically important excerpts from or copies
of the documents should be prominently displayed in public school buildings.”

How about if Mr.Saccone places the Article 11 of the Treaty of Tripoli, that
was ratified unanimously in 1797, into all public schools?

Article 11 states:  As the government of the United States of America is not in
any sense founded on the Christian Religion, — as it has in itself no character
of enmity against the laws, religion or tranquility of Musselmen, — and as the
said States never have entered into any war or act of hostility against any
Mehomitan nation, it is declared by the parties that no pretext arising from
religious opinions shall ever produce an interruption of the harmony existing
between the two countries.

This is an historic document and would teach the students what the founders
REALLY thought!  This is an historically important “excerpt” that would fit
into HB 1726.   This would also give an “alternate view” to the fallacy that
this nation was founded as a “Christian” nation.  Would Mr. Saccone add this as
an amendment?

Two national constitutional church/state watchdog groups have commented on this
bill:

 1. The Freedom from Religion Foundation has placed this “action alert” on
    their web site.
 2. Americans United for the Separation of Church and State has criticized Mr.
    Saccone’s bill to place this “motto” in public schools.

This bill will be the main topic of our Meeting on 11/04/13 at Isaac’s in the
Granite Run Shopping Center at 6:00 PM EST.

We hope to see you there!

Print Friendly
Posted in Action Alert | Leave a comment
← Older posts

  • Search for: [                    ] [Search]
  • Archives

      □ November 2015
      □ August 2015
      □ June 2015
      □ May 2015
      □ March 2015
      □ February 2015
      □ December 2014
      □ November 2013
      □ October 2013
      □ September 2013
      □ July 2013
      □ June 2013
      □ May 2013
      □ April 2013
      □ March 2013
      □ February 2013
      □ January 2013
      □ December 2012
      □ November 2012
      □ October 2012
      □ September 2012
      □ August 2012
      □ July 2012
      □ June 2012
      □ May 2012
      □ April 2012
      □ March 2012
      □ February 2012
      □ January 2012
      □ December 2011
      □ November 2011
      □ October 2011
      □ September 2011
  • Meta

      □ Log in

Lancaster Freethought Society
Proudly powered by WordPress.
