Friends of Freethought

Annual Meeting of Friends of Freethought 2015

 

Please join us for our annual meeting. All members are invited to attend.


Friends of Freethought annual meeting: November 4, 2015 · 6:00 PM
Sunday Assembly OC planning meeting: November 4, 2015 · 7:00 PM

Holcomb Residence  

Read more: Annual Meeting of Friends of Freethought 2015

Think & Drink 2015!

logo 2015 3 

Join Friends of Freethought for a wine social to benefit the OC Freethought
Alliance Conference.

THINK & DRINK 2015!

A Wine Social Fundraiser to benefit the OC Freethought Alliance Conference

Sunday, April 19, 2015, 5:30-8:30 pm

The Gleasons Residence, 9782 Santiago Blvd, Villa Park, CA

Read more: Think & Drink 2015!

All-skeptic/atheist Comic Night at the Brea Improv

[Improv-Fun]

Skeptic comics Ian Harris, Steve Hill, Emery Emery, & Travis Pinon present a
night of critical & thinking comedy! A portion of the proceeds will go to
Friends of Freethought.

Friends of Freethought is honored to partner with Ian to promote/support this
wonderful event and are incredibly grateful to the Improv and all the comics
for sharing a portion of the proceeds to help further our mission: providing
educational outreach and advancing the causes of reason, scientific literacy,
and critical inquiry as we partner with charities and humanitarian
organizations of Southern California through fundraising, volunteering, and
networking.

Read more: All-skeptic/atheist Comic Night at the Brea Improv

Orphanage Trip to Tijuana, Mexico

An orphan sit alone in a room full of beds

Periodically, Friends of Freethought volunteers take a trip to an orphanage in
Tijuana Mexico where we spend time playing with the spirited youngsters and
help to prepare and serve lunch.

Our next trip is to the Hacienda Orphanage on Saturday, November 15th.

Read more: Orphanage Trip to Tijuana, Mexico

Freethought Picnic

[Picnic_Ban]

On July 20th join Friends of Freethought, and a variety of Southern California
freethought/skeptic/atheist groups, for their first ever summer Freethought
Picnic in Fullerton at Ted Craig Regional Park from 11am to 3pm for an
afternoon of food, fun, and friends.

Read more: Freethought Picnic

Volunteer to Answer Phones During a Live PBS Pledge Drive

[PBS_logo]

Join Friends of Freethought in volunteering at PBS to answer phones and take
pledges during Joy Bauer’s Food Remedies and a documentary called Happy, Space
is limited to 16 volunteers, so RSVP soon.

Read more: Volunteer to Answer Phones During a Live PBS Pledge Drive

Membership Application

[membership]

Welcome to Friends of Freethought. We hope you chose to become part of our
community, find an enriching experience, and explore the diverse opportunities
for expression that our growing community of freethinkers offers.

Read more: Membership Application

Beach Cleanup

[GenericBea]

Join Friends of Freethought in helping keep our beaches clean.

Several times per year Friends of Freethought joins the Huntington Beach/Seal
Beach chapter of the Surfrider Foundation to clean our local beaches. This is a
free, fun, and easy way for freethinkers to get together for a little sun and
exercise while helping out in the community.

Read more: Beach Cleanup

Page 1 of 2

  • 
  • 
  • 1
  • 2
  •  
  •  

  • You are here:  
  • Home

Support FF

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
Main Menu

  • Home
  • About Us
  • Contact Us
  • Find us on Social Media
  • Mailing List Subscription

Upcoming Events

  • Compton Initiative Project: Help Paint a School or Home
    Sat, Jan 30, 8:00am
  • Los Cerritos Wetlands Habitat Restoration
    Sat, Feb 6, 10:15am
  • Sunday Morning Discussion Breakfast Co-hosted w/Backyard Skeptics
    Sun, Feb 7, 10:30am
  • Sunday Assembly Orange County
    Sun, Feb 21, 11:00am
  • Reading with the Skeptics: Book: Infidel
    Thu, Feb 25, 6:30pm

Like us on Facebook

                                 [5561106910]

Follow us on Twitter

twitter
[1242a039f5] FriendsOfFreethought @fofreethought
RT @CampQuestWest: Hey, @FoFreethought, help us #SendEveryCamper! Pls RT so
people can donate. http://t.co/tLhlemMZ8f http://t.co/74JsvGNp…
Jun 04 • reply • retweet • favorite
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Back to Top

(C) 2016 Friends of Freethought

