                              The Secular Humanists of the Lowcountry

  • [welcomemsg]
  • Herb Silverman, Founding President
  • [billboard]
  • Family Friendly
  • [goodnonmys]
  • Volunteer Activities
  • In Reason We Trust SC Tags
  • [welcomemsg]
  • Join or Donate to SHL
  • Parties, Happy Hour, Book Group, Etc.
  • Browse our Online Video Library

jquery slider by WOWSlider.com v8.6m

  • Home
  • About
      □ Overview
      □ Principles
      □ In Reason We Trust SC Plates
      □ Contact Info
  • Join / Donate
      □ Join SHL
      □ Donate to SHL
      □ Donate to our Charity of the Quarter
  • Activities
      □ Upcoming Events
      □ Volunteer Network
      □ Parties and other social events
      □ Book Group
      □ Monthly Meetings
      □ Family Friendly Activities
  • Newsletter
      □ Most Recent Issue
      □ Archive
  • More
      □ Links to More Information
      □ SHL Video Library
      □ E-Mail Subscriptions
      □ Ways you can help
Home
About
Join / Donate
Activities
Newsletter
More



  Upcoming Events

  January 24, 2016 4:00 pm       SHL Book Group: Sacred Cows

  January 27, 2016 7:00 pm       Team Trivia Night - 4th Wednesday, Mount
                                 Pleasant

  February 8, 2016 7:00 pm       Lecture: The Origin of The Controversy

  (See a listing of more upcoming events here)

  Announcements

   Donate to the Charity of the  We pool the donations from our members and
                        Quarter  give the total to a local charitable
                                 organization. For January through March
                                 2016, the SHL is collecting donations for an
                                 SHL member in need. Please help us make a
                                 generous donation to this deserving charity.

   New Article: God's Own Party  posted by Herb Silverman (SHL) on January
                                 21, 2016.

    SHL Book Group: Sacred Cows  posted by Yvonne Michel (SHL) on January 18,
                by Seth Andrews  2016.

         SHL January Meeting: A  posted by SHL on January 16, 2016.
    Secular Mountain Town Mayor

  Sign Up to receive SHL announcements in your inbox (powered by Mailchimp).

  Latest News

       A New Article in the P&C  A very nice new article by Sybil Fix
                                 discusses the growing number of
                                 non-religious people in the country and
                                 region. It mentions several members of our
                                 group and our January 2016 monthly meeting.

        FBB's Humanist Disaster  Foundation Beyond Belief, a secular humanist
       Recovery Team at work in  organization known for its role in
                   Columbia, SC  organizing charitable giving, is now taking
                                 action. The Humanist Disaster Relief Team,
                                 led by Rebecca Vitsmun and featuring a few
                                 volunteers from the Secular Humanists of the
                                 Lowcountry, is right now helping to rebuild
                                 homes damaged by flooding.

                                                    [HDRT]

                                 Click here to volunteer with future humanist
                                 disaster relief efforts.

      Americans United: Judge's  Alabama Supreme Court Chief Justice Roy
      attempt to block marriage  Moore today ordered all probate judges in
  equality in Alabama doomed to  Alabama to stop issuing marriage licenses to
                           fail  same-sex couples and suggested that a state
                                 constitutional amendment and a law limiting
                                 marriage to opposite-sex couples remain in
                                 force. This is a pathetic gesture that is
                                 doomed to fail, and it should be ignored by
                                 state officials, Americans United for
                                 Separation of Church and State says.

              Book Group Update  We had a large and engaged group at our
                                 November Book Club meeting reviewing
                                 Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or
                                 Succeed by Jared Diamond. It proved
                                 prophetic with the climate change meetings
                                 in Paris starting this week.

                                 As it is customary to not hold a Book Club
                                 Meeting in December, our next meeting will
                                 be January 24, 2016 at 4pm to discuss the
                                 new book Sacred Cows: A Lighthearted Look at
                                 Belief and Tradition Around the World. The
                                 author, Seth Andrews, is the host of one of
                                 the largest online atheist communities in
                                 the world, The Thinking Atheist.

                                 Barb Childs checked after the meeting at
                                 Barnes & Noble and they do not have copies
                                 in their store for sale. So, she arranged
                                 for 4 copies of the book ($15.95) to be
                                 placed in reserve at the store under her
                                 name for our reading pleasure.

                                 Yvonne Michel, Book Club organizer

  Amazon Associates Program

  Because we are affiated with the Amazon Associates program, our
  organization earns up to a 15% commission on any items purchased at
  Amazon.com through the links on our Website. So, if you were going to be
  buying anything at all from them, this is a super-easy way to contribute to
  SHL! Here are two ways you can do it:

    • Book Group Reading Selection: For their January 24, 2015 meeting, the
      SHL Book Group will be reading the book in the box at the right. Click
      here for more information about the Book Group or click here to see a
      list of previous book group selections. (BTW If you purchase a book
      through this Amazon.com link, SHL will receive up to a 15% "kickback"!)
    • Use this "search box" to find any item in the Amazon.com catalog and
      SHL earns money if you buy it:

                                Amazon.com Widgets

  Our Other Webpages

    • [faceb] SHL on Facebook
    • [large] SHL on MeetUp

  Affiliated Organizations

    • American Atheists
    • [AAA-logo]
    • Atheist Alliance International
    • American Humanist Association
    • Council for Secular Humanism
    • Freedom from Religion Foundation
    • Secular Coalition for America

                          Webmaster: Alex Kasman 2016

