 
[                    ] 
About.com

  • Food
  • Health
  • Home
  • Money
  • Style
  • Tech
  • Travel
  • More
      □ Autos
      □ Dating & Relationships
      □ Education
      □ Entertainment
      □ en Espan~ol
      □ Careers
      □ News & Issues
      □ Parenting
      □ Religion & Spirituality
      □ Sports

 
[                    ] 
  • Faiths & Beliefs
  • Inspiration for Life

  • About.com
  • About Religion & Spirituality
  • Agnosticism & Atheism

Agnosticism & Atheism

Worshipping Science and Technology - James Brey/E+/Getty

Do Atheists Worship Science? Is Evolution Atheists' Creed?

Boardroom Prayer - kristian sekulic/E+/Getty

Dealing with Religious Symbols at Work and in the Office

Taking of Jericho by Tissot - SuperStock/Getty

Immorality of the Biblical God: Can God be both Moral and Immoral?

Our Agnosticism & Atheism Expert

 
Austin Cline
Agnosticism & Atheism Expert
Follow Austin
    

Sign Up for Our Free Newsletters

Thanks, You're in!

[ ] About Today [ ] Living Healthy [ ] Agnosticism/Atheism
You might also enjoy:
[ ] Health Tip of the Day [ ] Recipe of the Day
Sign up
There was an error. Please try again.
Please select a newsletter.
Please enter a valid email address.
Did you mean  ?
Thank you,
,
for signing up!
Agnosticism & Atheism Essentials

  •  
    Atheism for Beginners
  •  
    Agnosticism for Beginners
  •  
    Simple and Easy Procedure to Become an Atheist
  •  
    11 Ways to Kill a Conversation With an Atheist
  •  
    Goals of Liberation Atheology: What Should Liberation Atheology Strive For?

Agnosticism & Atheism Categories

  • Does God Exist?
  • Atheism & Atheists
  • Agnosticism & Agnostics
  • Atheism Myths & Misconceptions
  • Questions About Atheism & Atheists
  • Advice for Atheists
  • Atheist Activism
  • Skepticism & Critical Thinking
  • Ethics & Morality
  • Humanism & Humanist Philosophy
  • Evolution vs. Creationism
  • Separation of Church & State
  • Religious Right and Christian Right
  • Religion and Religious Beliefs
  • Bible & Religious Scriptures
  • Blog
  • Basics About Atheism & Agnosticism: What They Are and Are Not
  • Liberation Atheology: Criticism of Theism, God, Religion as False, 
    Irrational
  • Secularism & Godlessness in Government, Politics, Science, Culture, and 
    Life
  • Updated Articles and Resources

Readers Recommend

  •  
    What's the Difference Between Atheists and Agnostics?
  •  
    Can Deontology Teach You to Be Ethical Without God?
  •  
    What Are Barack Obama's Religious Beliefs?
  •  
    Deductive and Inductive Arguments: What's the Difference?
  •  
    Atheism vs. Agnosticism: What's the Difference?

 
View More

The Latest in Agnosticism & Atheism

 

Secularism vs. Secularization: What's the Difference?

Although secularism and secularization are closely related, they nevertheless
differ because they do not necessarily offer the same answer to the question of
the role of religion in society. Secularism argues generally for a sphere of
knowledge, values, and action that is independent of religious authority, but
it does not necessarily exclude religion from having any authority over
political and social affairs. Secularization, however, is a process which does
involve such an exclusion.
 

Beliefs and Choices: Do We Choose Our Beliefs?

There are two general schools of thought for how beliefs originate: voluntarist
and involuntarist. Theists, and Christians in particular, commonly argue the
voluntarist position. Only if we can be held morally responsible for our
beliefs can disbelief be treated as a sin. It isn't possible to defend the idea
of atheists going to hell unless they can be held morally accountable for their
atheism. Better arguments can be made for involuntarism than for voluntarism,
however.
 

Is the United States a Christian Nation?

Even some ostensible supporters of church/state separation think America is or
was founded as a Christian Nation and this belief is very poplar among
Christian Nationalists, Christian Supremacists and all opponents of church/
state separation. The central problem with this claim is its ambiguity: what
does
 

Why Are Atheists Disliked, Distrusted, and Discriminated Against?

Why is there so much bigotry and hatred directed at atheists? Most of it is
based upon the following misconceptions.
 

Atheist Myths: Is Atheism Based on Faith?

Many believers claim that atheism is as much of a faith as theism because
atheists cannot prove God doesn't exist. This is a mistake on multiple levels:
it's not necessarily true that atheists can't prove God doesn't exist and even
when it is, that doesn't make it a 'faith' like a religion or theism.
 

What is Logical Positivism? History and Profile

Developed by the 'Vienna Circle' during the 1920s and 30s, Logical Positivism
was an attempt to systematize empiricism in light of developments in math and
philosophy. The term Logical Positivism was first used by Albert Blumberg and
Herbert Feigl in 1931. For logical positivists, the entire discipline of
philosophy was centered one task: to clarify the meanings of concepts and
ideas. This led them to inquire what
 

Confirmation Bias: Flaws in Reasoning and Arguments

Confirmation bias occurs when we selectively notice or focus upon evidence
which tends to support the things we already believe or want to be true while
ignoring that evidence which would serve to disconfirm those beliefs or ideas.
Confirmation bias plays a stronger role when it comes to those beliefs which
are based upon prejudice, faith, or tradition rather than on empirical
evidence.
 

How Can Atheists Be Certain That God Doesn't Exist?

When theists ask how and why atheists can be certain that no gods exist, they
do so under the mistaken assumption that all atheists deny the existence or
possible existence of any gods and that such denial is based upon certainty.
Although this is true of some atheists, it is not true of all - indeed, it
seems unlikely that it is true of most or even a significant minority of
atheists. Not all atheists deny the existence of all gods and not all of those
who do claim absolute certainty.
 

Literary Existentialism: Existentialist Thought in Literature

Because existentialism is treated as a 'lived' philosophy that is understood
and explored through how one lives one's life rather than a 'system' that must
be studied from books, it is not unexpected that much existentialist thought
can be found in literary form (novels, plays) and not just in the traditional
philosophical treatises. Indeed, some of the most important examples of
existentialist writing are literary rather than purely philosophical.
 

Does Evolution Contradict Religion?

Evolution is a scientific subject, but sometimes it seems to be the subject of
more non-scientific debate than genuine scientific discussion. The most
fundamental debate over evolution is arguably whether evolutionary theory
contradicts or is incompatible with religious beliefs. In an ideal world this
question wouldn't be relevant - no one debates whether plate tectonics
contradicts religion - but in America, this has become an important question.
However, the question is also too broad.
 

Einstein Quotes: Religion and Science Driven by Mystery?

Albert Einstein is often cited as a smart scientist who was also a religious
theist, but both his religion and his theism are in doubt. He denied believing
in any sort of traditional, personal god and he also rejected the traditional
religions built around such gods. On the other hand, Albert Einstein expressed
religious feelings. He always did so in the context of his feelings of awe in
the face of the mystery of the cosmos. He saw the veneration of mystery as the
heart of religion.
 

What Is Exorcism? What Does an Exorcist Do?

The English word exorcism comes from the Greek exorkosis, which means
'out-oath.' It is an attempt to evict demons or spirits from the body of a
(normally living) human being. Belief that demons can be evicted follows
automatically from belief in demons capable of possessing people. So long as
there is a belief that demons can possess a person, there will be belief that
some people have power over those demons, forcing them to cease their
possession.
 

Do Atheists Believe They're Smarter Than Theists?

It is true that smarter people than I and many other atheists have accepted
theism and religion - but so what? Smarter people than you have rejected your
brand of theism and your brand of religion in favor of some other type of
theism and religion. Smarter people than you have rejected theism and religion
entirely, leading an entirely atheistic and irreligious life. Do you think
you're better or smarter than they were? Is this a reason for you to drop your
theism and religion? Of course not.
 

Atheists and Christians on Teaching Creationism in Public Schools

Most Americans think that creationism should be taught in public school science
classes and the vast majority of evangelical Christians want creationism taught
in schools. With so much support for such changes, we're lucky that creationism
isn't already taught everywhere
 

Evil vs. Virtue: Which Should We Focus On?

Western religions tend to focus on sin, even to the point of personifying it,
while eastern religions tend to treat sin more as a stumbling block.
Prev
Next
1
2
3
4
 

  • About.com
  • About Religion & Spirituality
  • Agnosticism & Atheism

About Religion & Spirituality  Follow us:

    

We deliver. Get the best of
About Religion & Spirituality in your inbox.

Thanks, You're in!

You might also enjoy:
Sign up
There was an error. Please try again.
Please select a newsletter.
Please enter a valid email address.
Did you mean  ?
Thank you,
,
for signing up!
  • Our Story
  • Advertise With Us
  • Site Map
  • Help

  • Write for About
  • Careers at About
  • Terms of Use & Policies

(C) 2016 About.com — All rights reserved.
[dbg52463] [d5i9o0tpq9]
