                                                         
                                                                                                 Subscribe to our listserv!
 torch                                                                          [enter email address ] Click here to join memphisfreethought
 Search for Memphis Freethought                                                                 Powered by groups.yahoo.com
 Alliance on Meetup.com!          PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online!
                                                        *                        
                                   

 

Home

About Us

Discussion Forum

Past Speakers

Events

Book Club

Service Summary

Bylaws

Membership

Ockham's Cafe

Freethought Info

Contact Us

 

 

                      Memphis Freethought Alliance, Inc.

 

Short Introduction

Memphis Freethought Alliance, Inc is the premier freethought organization in
the Mid-South. In March 2005, MFA launched itself with a written set of
freethought affirmations and eventually incorporated in January 20, 2010. MFA
is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization.

What is our mission?

The mission of Memphis Freethought Alliance is to "advance reason, science, and
secular government through education". Our members and supporters are dedicated
to fulfilling this mission in the Mid-South--and beyond--through the following
activities:

 

        (1) Hosting face-to-face discussions, such as Ockham's Cafe

        (2) Reading and discussing freethought, science, and other books

        (3) Distributing educational information at local festivals

        (4) Showing educational videos and hosting local/national educators for
        public lectures

        (5) Providing an online community for freethinkers and the general
        public on Google Groups and Facebook

         

Explore our website and get involved. We are an organization operated entirely
by a dedicated core of volunteers. Please also sign-up on our listserv to
receive email updates on various events.

 

  • What is a freethinker?
  • What is an atheist?
  • What is an agnostic?
  • What is a secular humanist?

Freethinker (n.): We define a "freethinker" as a person who arrives at beliefs
without relying solely on tradition, dogma, or the opinions of authority.
Freethinkers insist on using reason, logic, and evidence as the basis for
forming reasonable and justified beliefs.

Atheist (n.): a person who does not believe in the existence of a god or
supernatural being.

Atheism is the philosophical arguments against the claims of supernaturalism,
which includes gods. Is this collection of philosophical arguments a religion?
We do not think so. The lack of a belief or skepticism towards a belief in the
supernatural does not constitute a religion. Many definitions of religion
include the belief in the supernatural; therefore, atheism would be the polar
opposite. A popular retort to the accusation that atheism is a religion is "If
atheism is a religion, then bald must be a hair color". (Note: Many religious
sects have a great deal of overlap (and vice versa) with the affirmations of
humanism, especially what many people today refer to as "liberal religions".)  

"Atheism, in its basic form, is not a belief: it is the absence of belief.  An
atheist is not primarily a person who believes that a god does not exist;
rather, he does not believe in the existence of god." (Smith, 1989)   This is
an important philosophical point because an atheist (or anyone else) cannot
deny the existence of something that simply does not exist.  For example, a
person cannot claim that another individual is denying the existence of
Spiderman if Spiderman does not exist.  Spiderman is simply a word referring to
a comic book action hero concept. Spiderman only exists through secular (i.e.,
stuff of this world as opposed to the spiritual world) things such as movies,
actors, posters, comic books, imaginations and so forth and does not exist in
reality as a real person.  Atheists believe that God is also just a word
referring to something that does not exist in reality.  This word "God" only
takes on meaning through secular things such as churches, testimonies,
imaginations, behaviors of followers, Bibles and so forth.  Without these
secular things, the God concept would no longer exist just like Spiderman would
disappear if all the Spiderman movies, comic books, memories of Spiderman and
so forth were suddenly erased.  In sum, atheists believe that both Spiderman
and God do not have any separate existence independent of these secular things.
         

Atheism: The Case Against God (1989) by George H. Smith, p. 7

Agnostic (n.): a person who does not believe that there is any evidence or
proof for the existence of god or any other supernatural entity but does not
dismiss the possibility that god or the supernatural could exist with reliable
and credible evidence (which agnostics believe does not currently exist).

Secular Humanism is a term which has come into use in the last thirty years to
describe a world view with the following elements and principles:

  • A conviction that dogmas, ideologies and traditions, whether religious,
    political or social, must be weighed and tested by each individual and not
    simply accepted on faith.

  • Commitment to the use of critical reason, factual evidence, and scientific
    methods of inquiry, rather than faith and mysticism, in seeking solutions
    to human problems and answers to important human questions.

  • A primary concern with fulfillment, growth, and creativity for both the
    individual and humankind in general.

  • A constant search for objective truth, with the understanding that new
    knowledge and experience constantly alter our imperfect perception of it.

  • A concern for this life and a commitment to making it meaningful through
    better understanding of ourselves, our history, our intellectual and
    artistic achievements, and the outlooks of those who differ from us.

  • A search for viable individual, social and political principles of ethical
    conduct, judging them on their ability to enhance human well-being and
    individual responsibility.

  • A conviction that with reason, an open marketplace of ideas, good will, and
    tolerance, progress can be made in building a better world for ourselves
    and our children.

Source: Quoted from the Council for Secular Humanism at http://
www.secularhumanism.org/index.php?section=main&page=what

 

 

 

 

 


   Memphis Freethought Alliance, Inc is a 501(c)(3) Non-profit Organization

                       Incorporated on January 20, 2010

