                           [transparent_blank]                             Home  _  Search  _  Contact
               Arguments for Atheism - Living without religion, with a clear conscience

 WHAT IS ATHEISM?   HISTORY OF ATHEISM   ARGUMENTS    QUOTES    FAMOUS ATHEISTS   REFERENCES & LINKS

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

    How to use this website

The main menu bar towards the
top of each page has drop-down
submenus to enable you to
pinpoint the specific area you
want to explore, or to browse
the subject at random.
_
Or you can just use the main
menu headings at the top and
bottom of each page, and work
through it all methodically.
_
Alternatively, you can use the
Search link at the top right of
each page to narrow down areas
of interest more specifically,
whether it be a word or phrase
(such as "agnosticism" or "god
of the gaps") or a name (such
as "Democritus" or "Albert
Einstein").
_
Just for the record, I have
used the spellings "god" and
"God" more or less
interchangeably, despite some
people's objections to the
practice, although "God"
usually refers to the
monotheistic Judeo-Christian/
Muslim god. Neither have I
capitalized related words like
"He" or "Being".
_
For dates, I have used the more
familiar BC and AD rather than
the more politically correct
BCE and CE.
_
Spelling generally follows the
conventions of Canadian English
(a hybrid of UK and US usage)
unless there is a compelling
reason not to (e.g. some
quotes).

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

_

There are many websites devoted to atheism, some learned, some simplistic, some
strident, some almost apologetic. There are also many excellent books on the
subject, including some recent best-sellers by the popular so-called "New
Atheist" authors.

However, it is sometimes difficult to find a concise, easy-to-use guide to the
major arguments for and against religion, with enough detail to be of practical
use, but not so much that it becomes a chore and a struggle. This website is
designed to fill that gap.

My intention is not to convert (or de-convert) believers or to point out the
error of their ways, but to make people with atheistic tendencies or religious
doubts feel better about themselves, to provide them with some "ammunition"
with which they can justify their own views to others (at the dinner table,
down the pub or anywhere else the subject comes up), and to convince them that
they can be open and unapologetic atheists and still hold their heads up high
in public.

The main part of the website is devoted to the Arguments:

  • Arguments for the Existence of God (the main justifications for theism, and
    their refutations);
  • Other Arguments for Atheism (of a more positive nature); and
  • Arguments Against Atheism (commonly encountered complaints against
    atheists, and their refutations).

In addition, to round out the site, there are sections on:

  • What is Atheism? (including sub-sections on the Definition of Atheism, The
    Term  Atheism , What Do Atheists Believe?, Who Are Atheists?, Is Atheism a
    Religion?, Atheism and Morality and Types of Atheism and Related Terms);
  • History of Atheism (from Antiquity, through the Middle Ages and Renaissance
    , the Early Modern Era and the 20th Century, to Atheism in Today s World;
  • Atheism Quotes from some well-known personalities;
  • Famous Atheists from different walks of life; and
  • References and Links used in the preparation of this website (including
    Links to Websites, Atheism Forums and Books.

                                        
                 Back to Top of Page | Home | Search | Contact
  What is Atheism? | History of Atheism | Arguments | Atheism Quotes | Famous
                        Atheists | References and Links
 
                             (C) 2011 Luke Mastin
                                        

●                                              [bottom]                                             ●
 
