Freethinkers Association of Central Texas

Subtitle

More

  • Home
  • Who We Are
  • Membership
  • Activities
  • Contact Us

  • [san-antoni]

    Click here to edit title.

    Click here to edit text
  • [user840241]

    Click

    Click here to edit text
  • [seth-andre]

    An evening with Seth Andrews,
    author of "The Thinking Atheist."

    Click here to edit text.

<

  • 1
  • 2
  • 3

>
 
      Home       
 
Who We Are
 
Membership
 
   Activities   
 
Contact Us  

Evolve Fish

 
[EvolveFish]
 

Amazon.com

 
[amazonmedi]
 

Meetup

 
[meetup]
 

FACT is on Facebook - "Like" us for Updates!

    Facebook

Welcome to the Freethinkers Association of Central Texas (FACT)!

[FactFish1]


    We are a nonprofit association of freethinkers, atheists, agnostics,
    secular humanists, rationalists, skeptics and other non-theists. Members
    are critical thinking individuals who prefer to determine truth by
    replacing authority, tradition and superstition with reason, logic and
    evidence.



    Please take a few moments to peruse our site. You’ll learn the history and
    mission of FACT and the benefits of becoming a member.  If you sign up on
    our Meetup site and adjust your settings for e-mail notifications, we will
    automatically keep you informed of all of our meetings and events. To go to
    the Meetup site, simply click here, or on the Meetup link.

      

    We hold regular meetings on the third Saturday of each month except April
    and December.  Our meeting in April revolves around Fiesta, and in December
    we have our Winter Solstice party in lieu of a meeting.  All monthly
    meetings are held at the Radius, which is located at 106 Auditorium Circle
    in San Antonio.  Meetings start at 1:00, and we always have an interesting
    speaker. Come a little early and share a cup of coffee and a cookie with
    us. 



    Also, you’ll notice links to Amazon.com and EvolveFish.com. If you’d like
    to buy products from either of these companies, please remember to “click
    through” this FACT site to get to Amazon or EvolveFish. Each time you make
    a purchase at either business, that business pays FACT a small fee. This
    helps us raise money, and costs you nothing extra to help us out!  Thank
    you for visiting our site, and don’t forget to save us as a favorite.  We
    hope to see you soon!




    "A man's ethical behavior should be based effectually on sympathy,
    education, and social ties; no religious basis is necessary. Man would
    indeed be in a poor way if he had to be restrained by fear of punishment
    and hope of reward after death." — Albert Einstein


Please Support FACT by buying from these retailers:


 
[EvolveFish]
 
[amazonless]
