RSS Facebook Twitter

[Search              ] Search

[flow]

Humanists of Washington

A 501(c)(3) Organization educating Washingtonians about Secular Humanism

  • Home
  • Activities
  • Contact Us
  • Get Involved
  • Goals
  • Leadership
  • Membership
  • Philosophy
  • Resources

 
picnic

2015 Annual Freethinkers Independence Day Picnic

Humanists and Freethinkers from the Puget Sound region, it’s time again to
celebrate Independence Day with our annual Freethinkers Picnic! Celebrate
Independence Day and the arrival of summer with our annual potluck. Humanists
and freethinkers from across the Puget Sound and beyond are invited to this
family-friendly picnic. Share freely with your group/meetup! Food served 1:00 …

View full post
signs_cropped

Open Letter to Clark County

After our initial success in preventing an “In God We Trust” plaque from being
approved for display in the Clark County public hearing room earlier this
month, the County’s Board of Councilors has revived the issue. Another meeting
on this topic will be held on Tuesday, February 24th at 10 AM at the Clark
County …

View full post

E Pluribus Unum: A Rally For Unity

Join Humanists of Washington, CFI Vancouver Skeptics, the Portland chapter of
Freedom from Religion Foundation, Freethinkers of Portland State University,
Americans United for Separation of Church and State–Columbia Chapter, and
CFI–Portland in opposing Clark County Councilor Mielke’s proposal to
“permanently and prominently display” the words “In God We Trust” in the Clark
County Council Chambers. The …

View full post
red-berries

2014 Solstice Potluck

Humanists of Washington and Seattle Atheists, along with the University
Unitarian Humanists, cordially invite freethinkers from Seattle and beyond to
celebrate the coming winter solstice with our annual Solstice Potluck! When:
Sunday, Dec. 7, 5pm-8pm Where: University Unitarian Church, 6556 35th AVE NE
Seattle, WA 98115 What to bring: A prepared dish to share with …

View full post

Debate: Does God Exist?

On Saturday, November 15, 2014 at 6:00 pm, Humanists of Washington board member
at large Bob Seidensticker will debate Rand Wagner at the Shelton Civic Center.
Bob spent many years in the software industry, and is now an author and blogger
at Cross Examined on the Patheos network. His debut novel Cross Examined
explores themes of …

View full post
2015 Annual Freethinkers Independence Day PicnicOpen Letter to Clark CountyE
Pluribus Unum: A Rally For Unity2014 Solstice PotluckDebate: Does God Exist?

May 30

2015 Annual Freethinkers Independence Day Picnic

Categories:

Uncategorized

by Rebecca Friedman

[event_126591082]Humanists and Freethinkers from the Puget Sound region, it’s
time again to celebrate Independence Day with our annual Freethinkers Picnic!
Celebrate Independence Day and the arrival of summer with our annual potluck.
Humanists and freethinkers from across the Puget Sound and beyond are invited
to this family-friendly picnic. Share freely with your group/meetup!

Food served 1:00 – 3:00 pm
Cleanup starts at 5:00 pm

Bring your family, some Frisbees, a blanket, sunscreen, and a picnic-friendly
dish to share! We welcome volunteers, including teens, who’d like to help with
setup around 11:30 am or lawn games during the event!  RSVP via our Secular
Seattle Meetup group.

Getting There: Enter and park at 20th Ave N.E and N.E. 58th Street and meet us
at the picnic shelter.

Map of Ravenna Park

 

 

This post has no tag

Feb 21

Open Letter to Clark County

Categories:

Uncategorized

by Sam Mulvey

signs_croppedAfter our initial success in preventing an “In God We Trust”
plaque from being approved for display in the Clark County public hearing room
earlier this month, the County’s Board of Councilors has revived the issue.
Another meeting on this topic will be held on Tuesday, February 24th at 10 AM
at the Clark County Public Service Center (CCPSC).

We encourage members of the community who are opposed to divisive language in
local government to attend the meeting and to sign this letter. An informal
rally will be held prior to Tuesday’s meeting in the plaza in front of the
CCPSC beginning at 9 AM.

The letter will be presented to the Councilors during the time allotted for
public comment.   While all are encouraged to sign, it is vitally important
that as many citizens of Clark County as possible are represented in the letter
. So please sign it, and share it with your friends and neighbors.

 

Read the rest of this entry >>

This post has no tag

1 comment

Feb 08

E Pluribus Unum: A Rally For Unity

Categories:

Uncategorized

by Rebecca Friedman


Join Humanists of Washington, CFI Vancouver Skeptics, the Portland chapter of
Freedom from Religion Foundation, Freethinkers of Portland State University,
Americans United for Separation of Church and State–Columbia Chapter, and
CFI–Portland in opposing Clark County Councilor Mielke’s proposal to
“permanently and prominently display” the words “In God We Trust” in the Clark
County Council Chambers. The proposal is nearly identical to the resolution
that was proposed and eventually adopted in July 2014 by Pierce  County Council
.  

The Clark County Board of County Councilors is considering a proposal to post
“In God We Trust” in the county’s main public hearing room. The Board of
Councilors will be making a decision on this issue at their February 10th
meeting.  We encourage anyone living in the area to attend the meeting and to
speak out against Councilor Mielke’s proposal. Prior to the meeting, please
join us for a rally in the plaza outside the County building.

Tuesday, February 10th:
9:00am –– Rally outside of County building
9:30am –– Head inside
10:00am –– Provide public comment

Mielke is collaborating with an out-of-state special interest group, In God We
Trust-America, Inc., to direct County resources toward the pursuit of divisive
politics. The move has been roundly criticized for being both out of touch and
unnecessarily divisive.

In God We Trust-America, Inc. is a national outfit seeking to “acknowledge and
affirm the role that faith in God plays in the public lives of the citizens in
this country.”

By endorsing this message, Councilor Mielke is conveying to all those Clark
County residents who do not worship the Judeo-Christian God that they are not
full and equal members of the community—a notion that would be reinforced every
time they entered the County Chambers to access their elected officials should
this resolution pass.

It is the position of our sponsoring groups that Clark County Councilors should
reject Mielke’s proposal, and would be wise to instead draw guidance from a
more deeply rooted American motto: “E Pluribus Unum”. Latin for “out of many,
one,” the phrase served as our national motto for 180 years until being revised
in 1956 as a reaction to the purported “godlessness” of communism.

Stay up to date on unfolding events via the Facebook event, and feel free to
promote via social media!

This post has no tag

Nov 12

2014 Solstice Potluck

Categories:

Uncategorized

by Rebecca Friedman

red-berriesHumanists of Washington and Seattle Atheists, along with the
University Unitarian Humanists, cordially invite freethinkers from Seattle and
beyond to celebrate the coming winter solstice with our annual Solstice
Potluck!

When: Sunday, Dec. 7, 5pm-8pm

Where: University Unitarian Church, 6556 35th AVE NE Seattle, WA 98115

What to bring: A prepared dish to share with 8 or more people.

Juice, tea, coffee, and adult beverages already await you. Ingredient labels
are appreciated for guests with allergies and dietary restrictions.  If you’d
like to participate in a White Elephant gift exchange, bring a funny,
intriguing, ridiculous, or otherwise entertaining wrapped gift valued at under
$15–family-friendly, please!xmas-gift

Freethinkers of all ages and affiliations from around western Washington are
welcome at this family-friendly event, and allied groups are encouraged to link
and cross-post via your social media outlets and newsletters.  Eager volunteers
should email info@HumanistsOfWashington.org to see how you can help with setup,
cleanup, and event management.  After we clean up, those wanting to continue
the revelry later into the evening will likely meet at a nearby establishment.
Stay tuned for location information from H.O.W  and S.A. leadership.

 

 

 

 

 

 

This post has no tag

Nov 06

Debate: Does God Exist?

Categories:

Uncategorized

by Rebecca Friedman

Does God Exist? event posterOn Saturday, November 15, 2014 at 6:00 pm,
Humanists of Washington board member at large Bob Seidensticker will debate
Rand Wagner at the Shelton Civic Center. Bob spent many years in the software
industry, and is now an author and blogger at Cross Examined on the Patheos
network. His debut novel Cross Examined explores themes of religious
apologetics and faith. Rand Wagner is a licensed funeral director and the
pastor/founder of the online community Thoughtlife Ministries. He holds degrees
in Theology and Apologetics. Humanists of Washington urges Freethinkers in
Western Washington to make a supportive showing! RSVP via our Secular South
Sound meetup! Like-minded groups should feel free to cross-list the event. We
hope to see you there!

COST: free
SATURDAY NOVEMBER 15, 2014 AT 6:00PM
SHELTON CIVIC CENTER- 525 W COTA STREET, SHELTON WA 98584

This post has no tag

Aug 28

Membership Meeting Sept. 13

Categories:

Uncategorized

by Rebecca Friedman

Screen Shot 2013-10-30 at 11.44.59 PMCome meet the board of Humanists of
Washington, hear about H.o.W.’s recent activities in the community, learn about
what’s in store, and find out how you can get involved!

Join us at our Annual Membership Meeting Saturday, Sept. 13, 3-5 PM at King
County’s Skyway Library, 7614 S. 126th St., Seattle , WA. Your board looks
forward to collaborating with Humanists and freethinkers throughout Washington
State. New and prospective members, supporters of Humanism, leaders and members
of allied groups–all are welcome!

Afterwards, those in attendance will head out to a to-be-determined local
establishment for food and drinks.  More details on event program to follow! 
RSVP through one of our three meetup groups, our facebook event, or just
surprise us in person on Saturday, September 13!

This post has no tag

Jul 29

Open Letter to Pierce County Council

Categories:

Uncategorized

by Rebecca Friedman

Concerned Humanists and Allies, HOW President Sam Mulvey will present the
following letter to the Pierce County Council on Tuesday, July 29, 2014 at the
3 pm council meeting.  Please sign below by leaving a comment, including your
name and location.

    Esteemed Pierce County Councilmembers,
    We, the undersigned, strongly oppose a resolution that would create a
    prominent, permanent display of the words “In God We Trust” in the Pierce
    County Council Chambers.

    The resolution describes the phrase as “inspiring” and provides “a profound
    source of strength and guidance”. On the contrary: it hardly does so for
    all Pierce County residents. According to the 2008 American Religious
    Identification Survey, 25% of Washington adults have no religion, and Pew
    Research Center reports that one in three young adults in America is
    nonreligious. Additionally, the term “God” is rooted in a Judeo-Christian
    tradition that excludes adherents of minority religions as well as
    nonbelievers.

    A far cry from celebrating our national heritage, the Council’s adoption of
    the motto would harken to a time in our national history when atheism,
    Humanism, and communism were conflated and reviled; the phrase only usurped
    our national motto in 1956 during the Cold War.

    As James Madison wrote in 1788: “There is not a shadow of right in the
    general government to intermeddle with religion. Its least interference
    with it, would be a most flagrant usurpation.”

    Pierce County Council, refrain from intermeddling. Remain representative of
    all your constituents, and do not display divisive and exclusive messages
    in our Chamber.

     

    Humanists of Washington

 

         Name
         Name
Adrian Nelsen
Jennifer Cox
Yvette Parfait
Douglas Parfait
Kayla Conner
Jerry Schiffelbein
Michael Hoover
C. Cullivan
K. Cullivan
K. Kennedy
Sonya Selbach
Lisa Spoonts
Eli Gandour-Rood
MEredith Brogan
Luke Turner
Luke Turner
Andrew Olson
Andrew Mobley
Todd Mulvey
Todd Mulvey
BRUCE MULVEY
BRUCE MULVEY
Larry Dunn
Jamey c Rivera
Scott Haydon
Katy Evans
Evan Query
Alan Mortensen
Lance Nelson
Karen L. Lew
Kiah Beeman
Kyle Sinclair
Steven Ammann
Glenn
Nicole Plastino
Carlos Sandoval
Kay Bratton
Bri Darby
Julianna Wiesenhutter
Dan Bennett
James McMichael
Laud E. Mercy
John Birch
James Steel
Mick E. Maus
Forest Huggin
Britton Sukys
Steve Coffman
Jenny Lees
Glenn Darby
Satan Darkangel
Bruce Sharer
Stacy Emerson
Dave Brouillette
Brittne Lunniss
Rubi Goldstein
Laurence S. Erhardt
Thomas B Delahunt
Lilith Langston
Yoshi Kumara
Andrea Capere
RR Anderson
Burt Clotheir
Delores Powell
Mark Powell
Roussi Roussev
Robert S. Hyland
Jeffery Anderson
Mauricio Perez
Anu Ramanathan
Nick Kennedy
Brandon Ivey
Josh Rizeberg
Linda Pomeroy
Tristan Carette-Meyers
Maximilian Hyland
Aaron Myracle
Jeniffer Alfaro
Carmel Thompson
Cheryl Overley
Malissa Page
Jessica Cordova
Theresa Pollard
Eleanor Morris
Tracy H.
Amber Case
Ashley Keiser
Michael Segers
Tom Bates
Jen Potter
Daniel Sande
Michael Hernandez
Jennifer Ostlund
Jim Malone
Julia Larson
Tom Malmevik
Sherri Hall
Michael Keiser
Roslyn Townsend
Bonnie Warner
Manuel Matos
Ulrike Dunlap
Tom Smith
Rich Lyons
Kajal Deepak
Steven DuBois
Kenneth Horn
Sean Duncan
Mike Gillis
Caiden Sacks
Iris Tio
Constance Brumm
Michelle Newland
Jason McDonald
Tyson Pfingston
John Burton
Patricia Menzies
Darren Garvin
F Avery Bishop
Ben Gregory
Ray Newland
Tara Cross
Edward Lang
Jane Pulliam
Chris Wukasch
Elisha Parks
Misha Balch
Kathleen Foley
James Ulness
Jackie Harris
Valerie Tarico
Misty Ashbrook
Gregg Sperling
James Anthony
Sara Finch
Sean DeButts
Joseph Colombo
Kristina Jones
sara dundin
Frank Blair
Brett Hansen
Elizabeth DeNoma
Erika Clayton
Daniel Hansen
Brad Tankersley
Douglas Bowers
Brian Vitsmun
Ruth Pyren
Suzan whitehouse
Monica Flynn
Mike House
Daniel Mauch
Kami Olsen
Adarsh Panikkar
Katelyn Driskill
Gregory R King
Deanna Joy Lyons
Scot Junglas
Don Morris
Jeff Nathan
Matt Griscom
Allan Poobus
Ari Stolar
Audrey Moreland
Heidi Van Auken
Donald Serna-Grey
Benee Kent
Amber Kost
Tom Newhof
Adrian Brown
Steven Spencer
Darcy Davis
Adam Smith
Melissa Watts
Lance Finney
April Rasmussen
Rada Bittner-Rozenberg
Marshall Goldberg
Bridget Lombardo
Raymond s Harig
Paul Mopps
Raymond s Harig
Rich Kingdon
Bob Seidensticker
Aaron Flett
Rebecca Vitsmun
Jen Mayer
Randi Stumpp
Joshua Oberg
Robert Ray
Keith Barnes
Michael Marion
Natalie Koonce
Christopher Hawthorne
Rebecca Friedman
Sam Mulvey

 

Note: The email field is for potential updates about the motion, it will not be
shared with anyone, anywhere, period.    You may leave it blank if you wish to
do so.

 

AS THE MEETING THAT THIS LETTER WAS INTENDED FOR HAS ALREADY TAKEN PLACE, NO
NEW SIGNATURES ARE BEING SOUGHT.   PLEASE CHECK BACK FOR OUR RESPONSE TO
TODAY’S MEETING

 

This post has no tag

10 comments

Jul 28

CALL TO ACTION: In god we trust?

Categories:

Uncategorized

by Rebecca Friedman

On Monday, July 28th, H.O.W. President Sam Mulvey and Secretary Becky Friedman
attended a committee meeting of the Pierce County Council where District 3
Councilmember Jim McCune proposed a resolution to permanently display “In God
We Trust” in a prominent location in Pierce County Council chambers. Sam
testified to the divisive nature of the display, and spoke of the Christian
dominionist groundings of the nationwide movement to install such displays in
governmental buildings.

The resolution will come before the full council on Tuesday, July 28 at 3 pm at
the County-City Building in downtown Tacoma. Councilmember McCune has stacked
public comment session with pro-God, pro-Christian speakers. We need your help
in several important ways:

 1. Pierce County residents, email your district representative, especially if
    you are a constituent in Districts 1, 2, 3, 6 or 7.  (Councilmembers
    Ladenburg and Talbert of Districts 4 and 5 are already on the record
    opposing the resolution).
 2. Encourage your fellow residents to do the same, stating your opposition to
    R2014-80s.
 3. Thank Councilmembers Ladenburg and Talbert for their commitment to
    inclusiveness, and their willingness to focus on religion-free governmental
    administration.
 4. Send this message along through email, word of mouth, and social media. 
    Several councilmembers expressed astonishment that the resolution would be
    considered controversial, since they rarely heard from any of their
    constituents that such a message could be perceived as exclusive or
    offensive.
 5. Email the Board for details on where to gather at 1 pm on Tues, July 29 to
    strategize testimony for the public comment session.
 6. Sign your name in our open letter to the Pierce County Council opposing
    this resolution.

Note that feedback from outside the county tends to be ignored by
councilmembers, so if you reside or work outside Pierce, help mobilize Pierce
residents to voice their concerns! This doesn’t just apply to Humanists and
atheists, but to all those for whom trust in a Judeo-Christian god does not
apply.

 

This post has no tag

Jul 14

Freethinkers Celebrate Independence Day

Categories:

Uncategorized

by Rebecca Friedman

Humanists of Washington, in collaboration with Seattle Atheists, hosted
freethinkers from around the Puget Sound as we gathered in Seattle’s Ravenna
Park to celebrate Independence Day with a potluck picnic.  The beautiful
weather and open spaces allowed for a relaxed, fun-filled day where skeptics,
atheists, humanists, agnostics, and those seeking inquiry and camaraderie
celebrated and socialized.

H.O.W. thanks all who attended, prepared delicious dishes and treats to share,
brought toys and games for kids of all ages, and helped with set up and clean
up.  At a time when patriotism is often linked with religiosity, when freedom
can morph into freedom to exert one’s religious practices through policy, when
reason is threatened by magical thinking, it is vitally important for those
aligned with a freethinking lifestance to proudly remain visible and vocal. 
Thank you to all, and have a wonderful summer!

This post has no tag

Nov 18

HOW Condemns Proposed County Budget Allocation

Categories:

News

by Rebecca Friedman

For Immediate Release

Contact: Sam Mulvey, president@humanistsofwashington.org

(TACOMA, WA, Nov. 17, 2013) — The Humanists of Washington strongly condemns a
last-minute amendment to the Pierce County, Washington 2014 budget that grants
$7,000 to the local chapter of The Child Evangelism Fellowship.

Third District Council member Jim McCune, chief proponent of the allocation,
claims the money will not go towards religious items. However, according to
CEF’s website, their purpose is “to evangelize boys and girls with the Gospel
of the Lord Jesus Christ, disciple them in the Word of God and establish them
in a Bible believing church for Christian living.” Both the federal and state
constitutions specifically prohibit taxpayers paying for religious
establishment.

“The County has no business using tax dollars to fund a religious
organization’s evangelism activities,” said Humanists of Washington President
Sam Mulvey. On his local radio show Ask An Atheist, Mulvey posed the rhetorical
question “Imagine if Tacoma gave me $1500 […] to take your children […] and
tell them that religion poisons everything. Is that something you would like?
Is that something you want in schools?” He continued, “The concept of a secular
government protects the people in the minority [as well as] people the
majority.”

The Child Evangelism Fellowship gained attention for its religious youth clubs
that frequently meet on school grounds, blurring the line between secular
public schooling and religious worship in the minds of grade schoolers.

Humanists of Washington encourages residents of Pierce County to attend the
final public comment session on the 2014 budget at the City County Building in
Tacoma on Tuesday, November 19 at 3 pm. Additionally, concerned citizens may
email council members here to demand the allotment for CEF be removed from the
final approved budget.

 

###

The Humanists of Washington (www.humanistsofwashington.org) is a statewide
freethought association dedicated to the principles of Secular Humanism, which
espouses a life-affirming, secular view of the universe built on a foundation
of reason, science, and democracy.

This post has no tag

1 comment

Older posts <<

[Search              ] Search

Recent Posts

  • 2015 Annual Freethinkers Independence Day Picnic
  • Open Letter to Clark County
  • E Pluribus Unum: A Rally For Unity
  • 2014 Solstice Potluck
  • Debate: Does God Exist?

Recent Comments

  • The Secular Celebrant | In God We trust part Deux on Open Letter to Clark
    County
  • Rebecca Friedman on Membership
  • pat byrne on Welcome!
  • Andrea Perr on Open Letter to Pierce County Council
  • Craig King on Open Letter to Pierce County Council

Archives

  • May 2015
  • February 2015
  • November 2014
  • August 2014
  • July 2014
  • November 2013
  • October 2013
  • April 2013

Categories

  • Activities
  • News
  • Philosophy
  • Uncategorized

Meta

  • Log in
  • Entries RSS
  • Comments RSS
  • WordPress.org

Copyright

(C) 2016 Humanists of Washington.

  • Return to top

Powered by WordPress and the Graphene Theme.

