Ask the AtheistAsk the Atheist

  • Home
  • Submit Question
  • WHAT IS AN ATHEIST

User login

Username: * [               ]
Password: * [               ]
[Log in]

  • Request new password

Navigation

  • News aggregator
  • Atheists beliefs
  • Atheists morals

Syndicate

Syndicate content

Popular content

All time:

  • You think we came from monkeys?
  • Do Atheists believe in ghosts or spirits?
  • Where do atheists get their morals from ?
  • How was the earth created?
  • Prove there are no gods.
  • What is an atheist ?
  • Would the apostles have died for a lie?
  • The Great Big Arguments #3: Cosmological
  • Did Jesus really exist?
  • What do you do in a crisis if you don't believe in God?
  • Best Evidence For and Against A Young Earth?
  • An Atheist's Faith
  • a question of logic
  • About Ask the Atheist
  • Josephus on Jesus
  • what about NDE's?
  • Secular response to a sneeze.
  • Was it Common for Hellenistic Jews to Write Fiction?
  • Adaptation VS Evolution
  • Social Contract?
  • How to handle biblethumpers at the door.
  • First cause Argument
  • Christ a Fake
  • The Great Big Arguments #2: Ontological
  • How does science explain the human conscience?

Holiday Shopping via Amazon


 Please make your purchases by clicking any of these links and starting your 
                     Amazon shopping experience there.   

                                      AA

                                      TV

                                      GPS

                                     MP3s

                                     Books

                                    Movies

                                   Computers

                                 Office Items

                               Car Accessories 

                                Amazon Wireless

                              Amazon Kindle Fire

                             Video Game Deals Page*

                            Samsung Galaxy Products

                         4 for 3 Promotion in Kitchen*

                         Audio and Home Theater Deals*

                       Consumer Electronics Deals Page*

                      New Video Game Downloads Releases*

                   Amazon Home Kitchen and Lawn Gift Guide*

                 Instant Video Movies Best Sellers on Amazon*

             Amazon Tools - Get Up to 50 Off our Favorite Gifts**

             Amazon Special Offers in Grocery and Gourmet Store* 

                                     ||||||

                                     ||||||

 

Please click these links before going to Amazon.com to make any purchases!  

  • 

The archive is alive!

Mon, 2009-11-09 21:48 — SmartLX

Welcome to the restored archive of the original Ask The Atheist. Represented
here are over two years' worth of articles and discussions.

This site is fully moderated as always, and no new content or comments will be
approved here. It's an archive. The current site is at the old URL, http://
asktheatheist.com. Please submit all new questions to [email protected], and
they will be answered there.

Thanks, and enjoy.

- SmartLX

  • 

Help me, I've been defeated by superior logic

Tue, 2009-07-14 00:47 — Prichard Hotpocket
Question:: 
God is love -- Love is blind -- Ray Charles is blind -- Therefore Ray Charles
is God!!!!!
Atheist Answer: 

Funny one-liner. At least it's mathematically correct if each noun (and the
adjective "blind") serves as a variable. Ray Charles certainly qualifies in
some musical circles as a god. The big problem is that this argument can be
used to "prove" contratictory things, like that Ray Charles, Roy Orbison and
Stevie Wonder are all God.

"God is love" is used by Christians all along the spectrum, but for different
reasons.

- Some fundamentalists and evangelists like Benny Hinn say God is love to
establish that God is the only possible source of love, and therefore since
love exists, He does too and we need Him.

- Some ultra-liberal Christians and some theologians say God is love as opposed
to a bearded man in the sky. It's one way of making the concept of a god so
nebulous that it's almost impossible to argue against it. They put God in
poorly understood "places", such as emotions or fundamental physical laws,
where it's hard to separate Him from what's real and observable. It's a defense
mechanism.

- Pretty much everyone who says it is looking to give people the religious
ecstasy that often comes from surrendering completely to faith. The phrase is a
part of the larger message, "Come to us. Unburden yourself of all your worries
and critical thoughts. Relax, let us in and God will take care of you, because
from Him all good things come." Once you obey that, for better or worse, you're
in the power of whoever told it to you.

"God is love" is a powerful phrase. Probably false in all respects, but
powerful nonetheless.

- SmartLX

  • God is love

  • 

Are you too easy on yourself?

Mon, 2009-06-29 21:07 — SmartLX
Question:: 
You've written some of the questions yourself. Are you throwing yourself
softballs?
Atheist Answer: 

I don't think so. I don't always feel like waiting for topics to come to me
before I address them, but I can't address them properly if I haven't expressed
them correctly in the first place.

I do my best to avoid strawman versions of theist arguments, partly because
many people like nothing better than to point these out. For questions where I
take on arguments from elsewhere I try to quote them directly; I've quoted
CARM, William Lane Craig, Ray Comfort and many others. When I have to
paraphrase for length, I go as simple as I can to avoid muddying the issue. If
people think I've excised something crucial, they're free to say so.

I'll be making fewer of my own questions in future, but for a good reason. If I
have a thought which is worth sharing but isn't worth making a whole Q&A, it
will now be tweeted. My personal ATA Twitter is separate from Jake's Twitter
shown on the right.

Enjoy my new outlet. If you take issue with any of my tweets, bring it up back
here and we'll talk about it.

- SmartLX

  • questions
  • SmartLX

  • 

Need help for Houston radio show

Tue, 2009-06-23 18:30 — danvilleman
Question:: 
I am going to be doing an Open Journal segment on KPFT radio and wanted some
ideas and maybe a prominent local atheist to join me in the discussion on air.
Does anyone have any ideas or contacts? Mark at [email protected] Thanks
Atheist Answer: 

Not living anywhere near Houston I can't be of much help myself, but I'll do
what I can starting with publishing this question. There, done.

You might be able to connect with "prominent" atheists in your area by
contacting local atheist groups. Failing that, those groups would all be glad
of some publicity and could each supply very knowledgeable spokespeople. Check
out the Houston Freethought Alliance, whose front page has links to all other
such Houston groups I was able to find.

If I were in your position, I'd do a piece on morality centred around the
phrase, "You can be good without God." A lot of evangelists and other
apologists argue that religion alone is holding society up with its moral
guidelines, and that everything would collapse without it. This actually has no
bearing on whether a god exists, but they use it anyway as an appeal to
consequences. By outlining sensible secular systems of morals and ethics, you
can help to dispel this idea.

YouTube has a fair few recordings of Richard Dawkins holding forth on many
American radio stations. Though many of the callers are attempting to attack
evolution, given that it's him, these recordings will still give you some idea
of what you'll get if you take callers.

Good luck. Let us know what you do and how it goes.

- SmartLX

  • discussion topic
  • prominent atheist
  • public speaker

  • 

First Cause Argument

Fri, 2009-06-19 22:38 — Prichard Hotpocket
Question:: 
Among the arguments for a god, the first cause argument stands out as one that
seems to be more credible than any other arguments like the evolution denying
argument for design. AKA "The eye was designed so people could see"......
Personally I would refute this by several routes. The first one would be that
everything doesn't necessarily have a cause, like radioactive decay. Perhaps
the acausal quantum fluctuations we see now had more of an effect in a
singularity. The other argument I could propose would be that the universe is
cyclic (big crunch, etc) but this doesn't seem to be the case. Perhaps another
similar idea would be that we are merely the offspring of a parent universe
with wildly different variables that allows for a spontaneous increase in the
amount of total energy/matter. Anyways, how do you deal with the first cause
argument?
Atheist Answer: 

Much the same way you do: by bringing up the other possibilities to beat the
argument from ignorance. I go into a lot more detail in this earlier answer,
and I've tackled it briefly in lots of others.

The argument from design I've answered here for a start.

- SmartLX

  • 

The Jesus dvd and rationality?

Sun, 2009-06-14 20:33 — TRUTHSEARCHER
Question:: 
First, I would like to know about this dvd that is claiming that Jesus never
existed? I don't want to waste money on buying it but I would be interested in
seeing what it has to say. And i'm not about to submit a video that would ruin
my chance for a possible place in eternity for a dvd, so another way to get the
dvd would be nice. But beside that, I had a question about the whole blasphemy
challenge and the rationality behind it all. Hypothetical question, i guess.
Jesus is God or He isn't. So if you are athiest you still have a probability
that if you are wrong about there not being a God you would still have a 50
percent change to still have eternal life. If there is no God then it wouldn't
matter anyways. So if there is a God and you still had that 50 percent chance
to still have eternity you have apparently just screwed yourself, making your
once 50 percent to know 100, if the verse quoted on the site is interpreted
right. I really hope it was interpreted wrong because I would want you to still
have that 50 percent chance. So doing the blasphemy challenge, to me at least,
seems like a pretty unrational thing to do. And about the Jesus thing. Do you
athiests use science to prove everything about the universe and everything in
it. If so how would you prove Jesus, or any other person in history that is now
gone. I mean you can't prove scientifically that someone existed. That's why I
wanted to know what the video was all about. I have a lot of other questions
that would make this way to long so i'll leave you with that. Like I said
earlier, I hope the whole blasphemy being an eternal sin isn't right. I would
say pray but you wouldn't care as much that way, or would you? Are you offended
by prayer? Sorry, i'll stop asking questions. Thanks!
Atheist Answer: 

You're talking about The God Who Wasn't There. It goes past atheism, which
merely denies the resurrection as improbable without the existence of God, and
examines all the documentation presented as evidence for even a historical man
named Jesus.

The idea is to question all the unspoken assumptions that most Christian
apologists make when arguing for the resurrection; it's easier for them to
start with a real man than from scratch, but are they justified in doing so? I
haven't seen the film either so I can't comment on its efficacy, but even if it
falls flat it asks questions worth asking.

It's impossible to prove 100% that the deceased existed without physical
evidence, human remains for example, but there are other ways to support it.
Take the Roman emperors for example: their names and faces are on statues,
busts and coins created during their lifetimes, and are visually consistent.
Jesus has nothing like this; his only support is a set of documents, chief
among them the Gospels, and the first of which were written well after his
death. This is why these are so ferociously defended, but they are not above
criticism and that's where the movie starts.

Your argument against the Blasphemy Challenge is exactly the reason why it
exists, because you've restated Pascal's Wager with its major inherent flaw
intact.

Here's the core of the problem: even if atheists are wrong, Christians are not
necessarily right. If there is indeed a god, out of the thousands of gods
humans have worshipped and the infinite number of gods we haven't even thought
of yet, the chances that the real god is the Christian god exactly as described
are not just miniscule but negligible.

By throwing in with any god, including Him, one has a far greater chance of
offending some other god who happens to be the real one, and being forced to
explain one's worship of a popular, well-liked but still false god. Atheists
wouldn't have that problem, and might even receive credit for combating belief
in false gods.

Even if the probability that there is a god and a Heaven is 0.5, you must
multiply that by the probability given the assumption of a god that it's your
particular one. To reach that 50 percent you mention, the second bit would have
to be a certainty, and it is not. If there are just two other possible gods,
then by worshipping yours you have a 1 in 6 chance of Heaven and a 1 in 3
chance of Hell. In fact there are an infinite number, so you're even worse off.

Taking the Blasphemy Challenge, therefore, is not a reckless act. It publicises
one's acceptance that Christianity is a poor choice, and there is nothing to
fear from renouncing it in what's intended to be an irreversible way.

I'm not offended by prayer, because I think it has no effect except a
psychological one, and it mostly affects the praying person anyway.

This is a site built for answering questions, so go ahead and make more
questions for us. If you have responses to the above, post a comment under this
one. Keep in mind that formatting doesn't work in the question field, so it
pays to keep new questions short.

- SmartLX

  • Blasphemy Challenge
  • pascal's wager
  • rationality
  • The God Who Wasn't There

  • 2 comments

123456789…next ›last »
Syndicate content
Copyright Ask The Atheist 2006-2012

RRS Network

This site is part of the Rational Response Squad network of sites. Your
username/password will work at these sites:

  • RationalResponders
  • Margaret Downey
  • Christmas
  • Atheist Volunteers
  • Free Thinking Teens
  • Ask the Atheist

Other sites...

  • Celebrity Atheists
  • Brian Sapient
  • Atheists
  • Atheism United

Who's online

There are currently 4 users and 406 guests online.

Online users

  • Beyond Saving
  • iwbiek
  • Old Seer
  • EXC

