Morgantown Atheists

Pages

  • Home
  • Join
  • Good Without God
  • FAQs
  • Calendar
  • About Us

●

How To Keep Up To Date

Here are all the ways to keep up to date with Morgantown Atheists.
see below:

Morgantown Coalition of Reason

  • Facebook Group: This group is open, so anything you post there will show up
    in your feed. This is a great place to share things that you want the
    general public to hear. 
  • Morgantown CoR: A place where all MCoR groups are listed, with the calendar
    of all of our local events.
  • Email: Neece@MorgantownAtheists.com

Morgantown Atheists

  • Facebook Group: The Facebook group is open to the public for anyone to
    join, but is closed so that anything you post will not show up in your
    feed. We keep the events up-to-date here as well. This is a great place for
    you to share information, links and ideas, as well as a place to socialize.
  • Morgantown Atheists: The calendar shows the events for the whole Coalition
    of Reason.
  • Meetup Group: Morgantown Atheists Meetup Group
  • Email: Neece@MorgantownAtheists.com 

Skeptics in the Pub
Facebook Group: This group is closed so whatever you post will not show up in
your feed.


SSA WVU - Secular Student Alliance of West Virginia University

  • Facebook group: This is a closed group as well.
  • Website

Morgantown Unitarian-Universalist Fellowship
Website


WV Skeptics
The Facebook group is open.
at 2/20/2020 10:30:00 AM No comments: ● ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Morgantown Atheists, morgantown coalition of reason

Meetings - check Facebook or Meetup

Please see either Meetup.com or our FB group for the latest schedule.

Morgantown Atheists on Meetup
Morgantown Atheists on Facebook
at 9/30/2014 01:00:00 AM No comments: ● ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Second Annual WV ASH Bash Picnic September 13, 2014

On September 13, the Godless of West Virginia Congregate in Morgantown for ASH
Bash Two!

Second Annual West Virginia Meeting for Atheists, Skeptics and Humanists

Who: Morgantown Atheists invites all Deity-Free West Virginians and Neighbors –
Atheists, Skeptics, Humanists, et al.

Who: Fred Edwords,the national director of the United Coalition of Reason, will
give a 20 minute talk on “Building Our Community for Action: how can we
crystallize the mission and goals of our community, deal with classic problems,
and organize for more effective activism?” This interactive presentation will
provide proven techniques for strengthening our groups and improving secular
social bonding toward the aim of increasing our power and influence, followed
by a question and answer session.

What: BBQ Potluck ASH Bash (Atheists, Skeptics, Humanists, et al.)

Where: Dorsey’s Knob Park, Fawley Lane, Morgantown, WV under the pavilion

When: Saturday, September 13, 2014 from 11 am to 4 pm

All Godless West Virginians, this is the place to be! Meet new friends of all
ages and refresh yourself with people who think like you. Morgantown Atheists
are pleased to host Fred Edwords, the national director of the United Coalition
of Reason. Organizations and individuals from neighboring states are also
welcome. This is a potluck, family-friendly BBQ.

Why: While people reporting themselves in surveys as unaffiliated or not
religious have risen to over 20% nationwide, having a strong network is more
important than ever. Morgantown Atheists is fostering the growth and
development of a secular community in West Virginia by bringing all similar
groups together. This second meeting is a casual, fun way to connect with
others around the state who share similar values.

All Atheists, Skeptics, Humanists, Nonbelievers, Agnostics, Secularists,
Science and Reason Lovers in and around West Virginia:

Bring chairs, sunscreen, coolers and ice, food and beverages to share. Some
basics will be provided. No Kegs allowed.

Free admission and Family Friendly.

contact: Neece@MorgantownAtheists.com

Meetup event: http://goo.gl/tolF2c


Online Information:
http://unitedcor.org/morgantown/news
https://www.facebook.com/groups/morgantownatheists/
http://www.morgantownatheists.com/
at 4/01/2014 01:19:00 AM No comments: ● ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

WV ASH Bash Sept 7- Picnic Potluck Get Together! Reason in the Mountains!

On September 7, the Godless of West Virginia Congregate in Morgantown for ASH
Bash

First Annual West Virginia Meeting for Atheists, Skeptics and Humanists

Who: Morgantown Coalition of Reason (Morgantown CoR) invites all Deity-Free
West Virginians and Neighbors – Atheists, Skeptics, Humanists, et al.

Who: Edwina Rogers, the Executive Director of Secular Coalition for America,
will give a talk: “Secularism - Unifying the Movement”

What: BBQ Potluck ASH Bash (Atheist, Skeptic, Humanist, et al.)

Where: Dorsey’s Knob Park, Fawley Lane, Morgantown, WV under the pavilion

When: September 7, 2013 from 12 pm to 5pm
All Godless West Virginians, this is the place to be! Meet new friends of all
ages and refresh yourself with people who think like you. Morgantown CoR are
pleased to host Edwina Rogers, the Executive Director of the Secular Coalition
for America, who will speak: “Secularism - Unifying the Movement”.
Organizations and individuals from neighboring states are also welcome. This is
a potluck, family-friendly BBQ.

Why: While people reporting themselves in surveys as unaffiliated or not
religious have risen to about 20% nationwide, having a strong network is more
important than ever. Morgantown CoR is fostering the growth and development of
a secular community in West Virginia by bringing all similar groups together.
This first meeting is a casual, fun way to connect with others around the state
who share similar values.

All Atheists, Skeptics, Humanists, Nonbelievers, Agnostics, Secularists,
Science and Reason Lovers in and around West Virginia:

Bring chairs, sunscreen, coolers and ice, food and beverages to share. Some
basics will be provided. No Kegs allowed.

Update: We are less than 2 weeks away from ASH Bash, the statewide WV secular
BBQ Picnic!
One thing we are hopefully going to do is have a video camera set up. You'll be
able to record a couple minutes of why you're an atheist/humanist/skeptic,
maybe why you're out of the proverbial closet, or a positive message to other
godless people about something to do with secularism. So now would be a good
time to think about what you might want to say.
We're going to have Edwina Rogers from the Secular Coalition for America give a
short talk as well. But the main focus of this event is so that we can get to
know each other. Hopefully lots of people from all over the state and
surrounding areas will be coming. Please invite anyone who you think might like
it!
This is a family friendly event. This is also a potluck, although we are going
to supply some of the basics. So please bring something to share, especially
something that you know you can eat if you have a special diet.
Beer and wine are fine to bring, but we can NOT have kegs. No kegs! So please
have beer in bottles or cans.
Remember to bring sunscreen and some chairs. There are picnic benches under the
pavilion but chairs might be nice for everyone to have.
We're looking forward to meeting you all there!
If you have any questions, please let me know.
Free admission and Family Friendly.
contact: Neece@MorgantownAtheists.com
Meetup event:http://goo.gl/OvMaf -  Map to Dorsey Knob: http://goo.gl/4AscF
at 2/10/2013 03:19:00 AM No comments: ● ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)

Find Us Online

Email

Facebook Group (closed, always accepting new members)

Morgantown CoR FB Group (open)

Morgantown Coalition of Reason (our parent group)

Meetup

American Atheists (affiliate)

American Humanist Association (affiliate)

Secular Coalition for America (supporting group)
●

Follow by Email

[                    ]                                                 [Submit]

●

Subscribe

[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
●

Labels

Morgantown Atheists
●

Archive

[Archive     ]
●

Search

Loading...
●
 
(C) Morgantown Atheists. Awesome Inc. template. Powered by Blogger.
●
