USA Secular Student Alliance
                             [                    ]
USA Secular Student Alliance Search this site

                  Secular Student Alliance at USA
                                                                               
                  Promoting:

                   Critical thinking as the means to seek knowledge and share
                  factual information.

                   Demonstrating how Church and State separation brings us
                  together so we can freely believe or not believe.

                   Inter-faith opportunities so we can succeed together.

                   A community of Freethinkers including skeptics, agnostics,
                  atheists, humanists and anyone else who is curious about
                  divine concepts.




                                                
                  Mission and Purpose:

                  
                  A community of Freethinkers who explore and discuss spiritual
  • Announcements philosophy, reason, and openness to new ideas as the primary
  •               means to understanding the human condition.
    Secular
    Student
    Alliance at   To promote and encourage the use of thoughtful and critical
    USA           attitudes in evaluating supernatural claims, pseudoscience,
      □ Event     and the paranormal.
        Calendar
      □ Doc        
        Sharing
      □ Tasks     To educate the public and our own communities about the
  • Group         Freethought movement.
    Officers
                  To promote the role of higher education as a means to
Join Our Group    increase understanding and problem solving within society.
Discussion
                   
 
                   
Join our
Discussion!         

Links             Other Key Issues:

                   Defending personal freedoms and religious beliefs.

                   Promoting solutions and awareness of fundamental social
                  problems.

                   Intolerance towards racism in any form.

                   Promoting awareness and equal rights for lesbians, gays,
                  bisexuals, and transsexuals.

                   Encouraging a greener global environment.

                  Promoting safe and responsible sexual habits. 

                  Advocating sustainable population levels and conserving
                  natural resources.




                  [affiliate]


                                                                               

Sign in|Recent Site Activity|Report Abuse|Print Page|Powered By Google Sites

