*
Skip to main content

Atheist Republic

Atheist Republic

 

About Atheist Republic

Menu

  • Home
  • Forums
  • Blogs
  • News
  • Resources
  • About Us
  • Store
  • The Team
  • The Logo
  • Our Projects
  • Volunteer
  • Donate
  • Contact

  • Home
  • Forums
  • Blogs
  • News
  • Op-Ed
  • Gallery
  • Podcast
  • Resources
  • Store
  • About
      □ About Us
      □ About Atheism
      □ The Team
      □ The Logo
      □ The Founder
      □ Our Projects
  • Volunteer
  • Donate
  • Contact

Welcome to Atheist Republic! A Community for Atheists Worldwide

This is the Atheist Republic. We are not afraid to call ourselves what we are.
We are atheists and proud of it. We will not apologize for what we do and don’t
believe. We will not rename ourselves in order to hide from hatred, and we will
not stay isolated out of the fear of being demonized when united. We can’t stay
silent while witnessing cruelty and injustice because we are not just atheists
— we are atheists who care. Atheist Republic provides valuable news, resources
and a medium for atheists to freely express themselves in a variety of ways,
including discussion forums, blogs and image macros of thought-provoking, funny
or inspirational quotes.

Join the Atheist Republic community: Sign up to participate in discussions on
the forums, subscribe to our newsletter, and become a member of the AR
management team.

Gallery | see all images

AC Grayling on Religious Apologists Complain on Aggressive Atheism
Douglas Adams: Isn't it enough to see that a garden is beautiful

News | see all news

Africa
Blacks in Africa Constitute the Center of Gravity for Christianity
American Religious Freedom
Americans’ Views on Religious Freedom Vary by Faith
Patriarch
Syriac Leaders Condemn Islamic State Attack on Christian Restaurants
Sin Free Social Network
Holy, Sin-Free Christian Social Network Launched in Ghana
Christian Pop Music Choir
Europe’s First Christian Pop Music Academy to Open in Germany

News | see all news

Blacks in Africa Constitute the Center of Gravity for Christ...
By Debapriya Chatterjee | Sat, 23 Jan
Americans’ Views on Religious Freedom Vary by Faith
By Debapriya Chatterjee | Fri, 22 Jan
Syriac Leaders Condemn Islamic State Attack on Christian Res...
By Debapriya Chatterjee | Thu, 21 Jan
Holy, Sin-Free Christian Social Network Launched in Ghana
By Debapriya Chatterjee | Thu, 21 Jan

Blogs | see all posts

  • Prayers for Someone Else
    Save Your Prayers for Someone Else
    The experience of testicular cancer allows a patient to...
  • Prayer
    The Purpose of Prayer
    Praying. What is the purpose? It is to link to a higher...
  • Conversations with Christians
    Conversations with Christians: Morality
    How can atheists be moral? This is one of the questions a...
  • Religion and Totalitarianism
    Religion & Totalitarianism
    The religious often try to defend the religious crimes of...

Blogs | See All Blog Posts

  • Save Your Prayers for Someone Else
    By C. Barnes | Fri, 22 Jan
  • The Purpose of Prayer
    By J.A. Foley | Thu, 21 Jan
  • Conversations with Christians: Morality
    By Sean Breen | Tue, 19 Jan
  • Religion & Totalitarianism
    By Sean Breen | Tue, 19 Jan
  • 10 Reasons Why Atheism Isn’t Sexy
    By Dean Van Drasek | Thu, 14 Jan

Atheist Resources | see all

 

Atheist Support Group

 

Need Asylum? Keep Calm and Read on

 

Resources for Atheist Parents

 

Debate an Atheist

 

Meet Atheists In Your City!

Forums | see all topics

                                       
Normal topic .
Normal topic Atheist have greater moral codes than Chris...
Hot topic    Feeling Trapped in a Vicious Religious Circ...
Normal topic Is this a good scam, or is it a good scam?...
Normal topic Hello all, new here, AMAA
Normal topic Argh!
Hot topic    The dark side of Theism (Page: 1, 2, 3 … Last Page)
Hot topic    Thanks!
Normal topic "Public Atheism"

Forums | see all topics

                                        
Normal topic .
Normal topic Atheist have greater moral c...
Hot topic    Feeling Trapped in a Vicious...
Normal topic Is this a good scam, or is i...
Normal topic Hello all, new here, AMAA...
Normal topic Argh!
Hot topic    The dark side of Theism... (Page: 1, 2, 3 … Last Page)
Hot topic    Thanks!
Normal topic "Public Atheism"...
Hot topic    why do you not believe???...

Store | see all items

 Religion is Fiction
 Religion is Fiction Shirt
 Godless Heathen T-Shirt
 Godless Heathen Shirt
 Atheist Republic Logo on Black Shirt
 Atheist Republic Shirt
 Black Atheist Republic Logo on White Shirt
 Atheist Republic Shirt

Atheist Fan Signs | See All

Straightfaced
Total Sweetheart
What a Sweetheart!
Far from the East
If Katy Perry Roared, So Can You!
Love you guys lots!
Atheist and Proud
From the Philippines
Add Yours

Atheism Is a Lack of Belief in Deities

Atheism is very individualistic. Whereas religions unify their members with a
core set of beliefs and behaviors, atheists are united simply by a lack of
belief in gods. This absence of a belief in gods can take many forms. Some
atheists believe strongly that there is no god; others simply are not convinced
that one exists. Other than that, atheists subscribe to a wide spectrum of
ideologies and philosophies as they see fit.

The Atheist Movement

Atheists are one of the fastest growing minorities in the world, and many
people are choosing to give voice to their views publicly rather than hiding
their lack of religious beliefs from their communities. In some cases, this
public declaration of atheism can lead to social backlash from friends and
family; in other areas, it can even be physically dangerous to admit to
atheism.

Members of the atheist rights movement might be interested in their right to
raise children free of the influence of religion in schools. They may push for
the safety and security of atheists in devoutly religious societies. Many
nonbelievers are also part of other social activist movements devoted to the
protection of human rights of many people, regardless of their beliefs.

All of this means that there is no singular, decisive "atheist movement."

There Is No Single Representative For All Atheists

The atheist movement has many faces, and each individual has the opportunity
and the freedom to make a difference however he or she wishes. Just as
godlessness can lead to different personal life philosophies that celebrate
individualism and free thought, atheist movements’ strength comes from their
diversity of opinions.

All of this means that there is no single representative of atheism or the
atheist movement. No individual is doing it "right" or is somehow a "better"
atheist than anyone else. There are no doctrines to follow and no mandatory
beliefs to hold.

It's possible and even preferable to create cohesion without over-generalizing
the traits of a group or forcing anyone to adhere to a definition that does not
seem accurate. By celebrating the diversity of the atheist community, we have
the freedom to pursue change and activism in our own way.

View Atheist Republic in another language!
[Choose a destination...]
[Search the Site...            ]
[Apply]
Log in or create an account to join the discussions on the Atheist Republic
forums.

[facebook-l]
Create new account
[Username            ]
[                    ]
[Sign In]
Follow
Follow
Instagram

Donating = Loving

Heart Icon

Bringing you atheist articles and building active godless communities takes
hundreds of hours and resources each month. If you find any joy or stimulation
at Atheist Republic, please consider becoming a Supporting Member with a
recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good
dinner.

[3$ / month : $3.00 USD - monthly    ]

PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online!*

Or make a one-time donation in any amount.

Record Your Message!

AR Sign

Start Recording

Record your voice here for it to be aired on the upcoming Atheist Republic
podcast.

Send us your views and opinions, your personal stories, messages of support,
comments on recent news, or any comments you would like to share about your
part of the world.

Atheist Republic in the Media

As seen on: CNN News BBC News The Telegraph[courierlog]

Subscribe to our Newsletter

Over 12,000 heathens have subscribed to our newsletter!

Sign up below for the Atheist Republic newsletter to get exclusive content
delivered weekly to your inbox.

Subscribe Now

Join the Atheist Republic Team

[ar-volunte]

Join Us!

About Atheism | See All Posts

What is Atheism?
What is Atheism? A brief explanation.
Why There Is No God
Why There Is No God: Quick Responses to 10 Common Theist Arguments
Atheism vs Agnosticism
Atheism vs Agnosticism: What is the difference?
Ten Common Myths About Atheists
Ten Common Myths About Atheists
What is God?
What is God? An Objective Overview of Different Views and Ideologies

Atheist Quotes | See All Quotes

How can anyone wish Christianity to be true?
Atheism & Religion - Brad Pitt
Do Beliefs Deserve Ridicule
Separation of Church and State
If God Exists Everything is Permitted
Jesus Death Worthless?
Scare Children With Hell Child Abuse
Stupidity of Religion

Atheist Republic 2012 - 2015 | Non-profit Organization incorporated under the
Canada Not-for-profit Corporations Act

Sitemap | Terms and Conditions | Privacy Policy
