Skip to content

AgASA

The Agnostic & Atheist Student Association

Menu and widgets

Meetings

Meetings are held weekly in the Garrison Room at the MU from 6:10 - 8:00 on
Thursdays.

Each week we hold a lively debate on a controversial topic. Topics are posted
on this webpage and on the facebook group.

Information

  • About Us
  • Contact
  • Gallery
  • Our Friends

Social

  • View www.facebook.com/groups/DavisAgASA’s profile on Facebook

May 8 – Medicine

medicine

Out topic this week is medicine. A lot of this post is also covering
pseudoscience which was our topic last week, but there is a lot of overlap.

Supplements:

There are a lot of supplements and there are a lot of claims made about them.
However it is always important to treat such claims with skepticism. If you
aren’t aware, you do NOT need to prove a supplement is effective in order to
sell it. You just have to show it is “Generally Regarded As Safe.” This chart
is probably the most comprehensive I’ve ever found that looks at various
supplements and how much research there is to support their claims.

http://www.informationisbeautiful.net/play/snake-oil-supplements/

Note that each bubble represents only one claim, but a supplement can be listed
multiple times. For example, according to this chart, there is strong evidence
that garlic helps with heart disease so it is near the top of the page, but
there is less compelling evidence that garlic is helpful for cancer prevention,
so that bubble is below the “Worth It” line.

Acupuncture

Science-based Medicine has a pretty thorough overview of the claims and lack of
evidence for acupuncture.

http://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org/reference/acupuncture/

Chiropractors

http://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org/reference/chiropractic/

Anti-vaccines

In 1998, Andrew Wakefield published a study linking autism to vaccinations. The
results of that study were never reproduced. This underlies the difference
between “a study” and “the literature.” Technically the process of peer-review
was successful, since the study was reviewed and found to be lacking (and there
was strong evidence that he falsified data and made other fraudulent claims).
The journal officially retracted the study and he has been barred from
practicing medicine in the UK.

Despite the continued refutation, the anti-vaccine movement has been picking up
steam in recent years due to endorsements by “celebrities” (like Jenny McCarthy
) and “activists” (like Robert F. Kennedy Jr.).

As a result of this media attention, vaccination rates have fallen in Europe
and the US and this may have led to increase in preventable diseases.

Homeopathy

Stanislaw Burzynski

If you are interested in how long pseudoscience can be sustained without ever
having to prove itself, there is Stanislaw Burzynski. He has been treating
cancer patients since the 1970s despite having no specialty training in
oncology or internal medicine.

Here is some details about the “treatment” he claims is effective for cancer
patients.

Here is some information about the man himself and how he got started.

Right to Try Laws

This also leads to “right to try” laws that are being proposed in several
states (and now federally). Basically, certain organizations want to be able to
sell their treatments to terminally ill patients without going through the
proper testing.

If you are unfamiliar, a typical clinical trial will have multiple phases of
testing for safety, efficacy, and side effects.

However, several states want to short circuit this system and allow terminally
ill patents to try “investigatory” methods that have not completed the full
cycle of trials. The thinking is that there are effective drugs stuck in the
testing phase and the process may take too long for people sick today. However,
this ignores the fact that most drugs aren’t shown to be effective by the time
they end the full trial process. Also, the “right to try” laws focus on drugs
that have only passed the Phase I testing, which is problematic because those
trials don’t necessarily find all the complications or side effects.

In short, Phase I trials only test for toxicity in small groups (as few as 20
people) and they can’t really make any conclusion about the efficacy of the
drug. Most drugs that pass this phase still don’t pan out as effective.

“Think of phase I trials as a screening test looking for the most obvious
toxicities, with phase II and III studies confirming them. Indeed, even phase
III trials can’t always adequately demonstrate that a drug is safe; it’s not
uncommon for less common adverse effects not to show up until post-marketing
surveillance, when much larger numbers of patients receive the drug. Moreover,
only 5% of all cancer drugs that enter clinical testing are ultimately approved
for patient use.”

And there are attempts to create similar laws on the federal level.

It ultimately comes down to an ethical question. Is it right to sell people
medicine that hasn’t been shown to be effective?

Posted on May 8, 2014October 22, 2015Categories meetings

April 10 – Atheist PR

This week’s meeting topic is Atheist PR. We could discuss the social stigma of
atheism, how to counter negative stereotypes, or how to reach out and
participate in the community as atheists. This is a timely topic considering we
have Picnic Day and our first AgASA-hosted event of the year coming up soon. So
we can also discuss how to best promote our club on campus.

To that end, we are also going to be creating posters and maybe t-shirts at
this meeting. We’ll be providing some fabric markers, so we encourage you to
bring a t-shirt for yourself, and you can work on that during the meeting.

Thursday, April 10th @ 6:10PM
Hart 1116

https://www.facebook.com/events/738248502882347/

As mentioned above, AgASA will be fundraising on Picnic Day, Saturday April
12th. We will likely have a bake sale to raise money for our guest speakers,
and also provide some fun, interactive, sciencey activities. So stop by the
Student Organization Faire on the Quad. It’ll be a lot of fun.

Here are some articles on this topic that might be worth a read.

There have been many studies showing that people distrust atheists more than
any other group.

This doesn’t help the public perception of atheists as arrogant or pompous.

However, there have been many public awareness campaigns to try to improve the
image of atheists.

So if any of that is of interest to you, please stop by our meeting.

Posted on April 10, 2014Categories UncategorizedLeave a comment on April 10 –
Atheist PR

March 6 – Is Religion Beneficial or Harmful to our Society?

Our meeting topic this week gets right to the point, so I will as well.

Christopher Hitchens’ book, God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything,
is one of the most well known arguments on the side of religion as harmful. He
participated in many debates, but one in particular is worth watching. The
topic was “The Catholic Church is a force for good in the world.” For the
motion: Archbishop John Onaiyekan and Ann Widdecombe. Against the motion:
Christopher Hitchens and Stephen Fry.



As always, it’s much more interesting to hear opposing views, so I found a few
articles that seek to list some of the benefits of attending regular religious
services.

Religion Is Good For All Of Us, Even Those Who Don’t Follow One

The Benefits of Church

There is also a book called “America’s Blessings: How Religion Benefits
Everyone, Including Atheists”. It’s basically about why [S:religion:S] … [S:
Christianity:S] … Evangelical Christianity is what makes America so great, even
to the benefit of atheists. It’s hard to dispute claims like that.

Last Meeting

This will be the last official meeting of the quarter. We will likely have
something going on next week, but we don’t have any details yet, so just keep
an eye on the Facebook page.

Posted on March 5, 2014Categories meetingsLeave a comment on March 6 – Is
Religion Beneficial or Harmful to our Society?

February 27 – The Education System

Our meeting topic this week is the education system. This is a topic that was
brought up in several meetings last quarter, so we’ve dedicated an entire
conversation to it. Education is a very broad topic, so there are a lot of
different facets that can be covered and several directions this conversation
can go. As such, I thought it might be a good idea to break up this topic into
a few different posts.

Part 1 – Evolution

Part 2 – Politics

Part 3 – The Future of Education

As always, everyone is welcome and we hope to see you there.

Posted on February 27, 2014Categories meetingsLeave a comment on February 27 –
The Education System

The Education System: Part 3 – The Future of Education

Our meeting topic this week is the education system. This is a topic that was
brought up in several meetings last quarter, so we’ve dedicated an entire
conversation to it. Education is a very broad topic, so there are a lot of
different facets that can be covered and several directions this conversation
can go. As such, I thought it might be a good idea to break up this topic into
a few different posts.

Learning Styles Myth

While looking up how new technology is impacting education, I often came across
the idea that students who have different “learning styles” would be served by
these new techniques. But after a little bit of research, I found that there
isn’t much evidence that customizing education to fit a student’s preference
increases their learning of the material. Students do have a preference to
visual, audio or kinesthetic learning, but they don’t retain the information
any better, and they may in fact benefit from learning in a way that is less
preferable.

(Aside: Future teachers may be interested in a paper published in Frontiers in
Psychology “Neuromyths in education: Prevalence and predictors of
misconceptions among teachers.”)

Technology in the Classroom

This seems to be treated as a recent trend, but in reality, new technology has
always had a role in education. I remember my favorite part of the week in
elementary school was going to the computer lab and playing educational games
like Oregon Trail, Math Blaster, Number Munchers, Where in the World is Carmen
San Diego?, SuperSolvers Outnumbered. The 90s, man. Wait, what were we talking
about?

But yes, it seems that there is evidence that introducing technology into the
classroom can have a positive impact on learning.

Online Education

Just a few days ago, University of the People, a tuition-free online school
received accreditation to grant degrees to graduates. There is also several
colleges and universities that have posted full course materials online for
free, including MIT OpenCourseWare, Harvard, and several others.

There are also startups like Udacity that are specifically geared towards
providing specific training to high demand jobs. The courses are paid for by
companies that are looking to hire people with specific qualifications, but
they are free to people willing to learn.

Not to mention Coursera, Academic Earth, Khan Academy and so many others. It
makes me start to wonder why exactly I’m spending so much money for the
privilege of being in an overcrowded lecture hall.

If nothing else, it raises the question of how much a university education is
an intellectual pursuit or a quest for a degree.

So I hope this series was helpful in identifying some ways this topic can be
discussed. However, it is not any kind of agenda of what we will necessarily
talk about. Whoever shows up gets to decide how the meetings go.

Posted on February 27, 2014February 27, 2014Categories meetingsLeave a comment
on The Education System: Part 3 – The Future of Education

The Education System: Part 2 – Politics

Our meeting topic this week is the education system. This is a topic that was
brought up in several meetings last quarter, so we’ve dedicated an entire
conversation to it. Education is a very broad topic, so there are a lot of
different facets that can be covered and several directions this conversation
can go. As such, I thought it might be a good idea to break up this topic into
a few different posts.

The evolution debate is probably the most directly related to this club, but
there are a lot of avenues for discussion when it comes to education, and
several of them have become embroiled in political discussions about education
reform.

Public Schools vs Charter Schools vs Other

I’ve often seen this debate referred to as “school choice,” but that seems to
be the case for only one side. And I think it fundamentally comes down to
whether or not one would prefer to have a strong public education system or
more alternatives, such as charter schools, homeschooling or private schools. A
charter school is typically free, and with no qualifications necessary for the
student to enroll, but they are usually assigned via lottery since there are
more students than available spaces. And a private school is one that charges
students a tuition. They are often associated with religions, but they needn’t
be. There are also magnet schools, which are specialized in certain subjects,
but students typically have to test into them.

There are ardent arguments both for “school choice” and against.

Teachers Unions

Another fervent concern often debated is the amount of power unions have in the
education process. At the heart of that is the issue of tenure for K-12
educators. This has been covered extensively in the documentary Waiting for
“Superman” by director Davis Guggenheim, who also directed An Inconvenient
Truth. I mention his other work because there is a rebuttal by a teacher-backed
group called The Inconvenient Truth Behind Waiting for Superman.

In addition to those topics, there are also issues of whether or not
standardized tests are useful tools, how to close the Achievement Gap, federal
vs. local control of school curriculum, metrics on measuring student success,
metrics on measuring teacher success, and identifying and analyzing the
fundamental goals of education.

So once we’ve got all of that sorted out, we can move onto the Future of
Education.

Posted on February 27, 2014February 27, 2014Categories meetingsLeave a comment
on The Education System: Part 2 – Politics

The Education System: Part 1 – Evolution

Our meeting topic this week is the education system. This is a topic that was
brought up in several meetings last quarter, so we’ve dedicated an entire
conversation to it. Education is a very broad topic, so there are a lot of
different facets that can be covered and several directions this conversation
can go. As such, I thought it might be a good idea to break up this topic into
a few different posts.

First up, evolution.

There is a common theory that Charles Darwin hesitated publishing his book On
the Origin of Species because he feared the religious backlash. This might not
be the case. He was busy writing other books and he talked about his theory of
evolution openly without causing any outrage. However, the publication did
result in international debate and has fundamentally altered biology and
science in general.

Legal History

You’ve probably learned about evolution through Natural Selection in a high
school biology class at some point, but even today that type of education is
occasionally challenged by religious fundamentalists. Here is a very brief
overview of the legal cases regarding the teaching of evolution (and
creationism) in the United States.

  • Scopes Trial (1925) – Tennessee made it illegal to teach evolution. Scopes
    was found guilty and fined $100.
  • Epperson v. Arkansas (1968) – Supreme Court case that ruled that bans on
    teaching evolution were unconstitutional.
  • Edwards v. Aguillard (1987) – Supreme Court case that prohibited the
    teaching of creationism in schools.
  • Kitzmiller v. Dover (2005) – A Pennsylvania District court case that ruled
    that Intelligent Design was not allowed to be taught in schools because of
    its religious connotations.

ArsTechnica has a great rundown of the history of the debate on creationism,
from a few different perspectives. It gives a pretty thorough list of different
factions and what they support (Young Earth Creationism, Day Age Creationism,
Intelligent Design, etc.)

Current Standing

This is still a hotly debated topic, despite the overwhelming (and growing)
evidence for evolution.

Just a few weeks ago, there was a debate between creationist Ken Ham, president
of Answers in Genesis and the Creation Museum, and science educator and TV
personality Bill Nye. You can watch the full debate on Youtube.

If you are not aware, Texas is often a battleground for this debate because of
the approval process for textbooks. Because of the size of Texas school
districts, publishers basically get the books approved in Texas, and just use
the same book in the rest of the country. And for this reason, their school
boards elections are a bigger deal than most. The State Board of Education
typically has a large bloc of Creationist members that offer recommendations to
publishers to undermine the teaching of evolution.

However, recently the major textbook publishers ignored these recommendations
and the Board approved them anyway (because they need textbooks), so there is
some hope that this front of the debate will be less important in the future.

About 33% of adults in the US still reject the idea of humans evolving over
time, according to the Pew Research Center’s latest survey. This is actually
consistent with their findings in 2009.

So that’s more or less where things stand today. I’m sortof taking for granted
that anyone reading this will already accept the theory of evolution. But I
find it interesting how contentious this issue is even with the amount of
evidence in favor of evolution, just because religion is involved. The only
other topic that might cause as much controversy when mixing with education is
probably politics.

Which will be covered in Part 2.

Posted on February 27, 2014February 27, 2014Categories meetingsLeave a comment
on The Education System: Part 1 – Evolution

Posts navigation

Page 1 Page 2 … Page 10 Next page
The Twenty Fifteen Theme. Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
AgASA
Blog at WordPress.com. The Twenty Fifteen Theme.
Follow

Follow “AgASA”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
