skip to main | skip to sidebar
[3773743800]
●

  • Home
    Main Page
  • About Us
    info, officers, etc.
  • Events
    Calendar
  • Blog
    Godless musings
  • Links
    other sites
  • Photos
    SURE Shots
  • FAQ
    Any Questions?
  • Contact
    How to reach us

Weekly meetings for 2012-2013 are taking place on Wednesdays at 7 PM in the
UCEN Harbor Room (downstairs between the Hub and the post office). More
information about the events can be found on facebook at facebook.com/groups/
ucsbskeptics

Welcome to the official site of SURE: UCSB atheists, agnostics, secularists,
and skeptics. We are a student group at the University of California, Santa
Barbara for like-minded students to meet and be comfortably godless with each
other. Join us for a meeting if you're interested!

The front page has posts on general group news - for more interesting
discussions, opinions, and random thoughts, check out the SURE Blog!


News/Announcements:

Meeting Info for the 2012-13 School Year

Posted 10/15/12 at 3:58pm by Sam

The meetings this year are taking on Wednesdays at 7 PM in the UCEN Harbor Room
(downstairs between the Hub and the post office). Drop by this Wednesday!

As always, more information is available on the Facebook Group page. It's the
best place to look for current information on the group's activities and other
plans.
0 comments

[icon18_edi]

Michael Shermer: The Science of Good & Evil - Free Talk!

Posted 3/9/11 at 5:27 PM by Sam

[Michael14e]SURE is glad to be hosting a talk by Michael Shermer! You may have
heard of him; he's quite well known in skeptic circles as being the founding
editor of Skeptic Magazine (skeptic.com) and the executive director of the
Skeptics Society. He is also a monthly columnist for Scientific American, the
host of the Skeptics Distinguished Science Lecture Series at Caltech, and
Adjunct Professor of Economics at Claremont Graduate University.

Dr. Shermer will be coming to UCSB to give a talk called The Science of Good &
Evil, Why People Cheat, Gossip, Share, Care, and Follow the Golden Rule, which
will examine the evolutionary origins of morality and how to be good without
God.

We are happy to be able to present the talk completely FREE OF CHARGE! That's
right... free. Although we might have some fundraising going on (buy our baked
goods if we have them!).

The talk will take place on April 5th at 6:30pm, in Corwin Pavilion on the UCSB
campus (that's the large hall attached to the UCen - here's a map: goo.gl/maps/
CtpU).

Once again, the event:
Michael Shermer: The Science of Good & Evil
Tuesday, April 5th at 6:30pm
UCSB Corwin Pavilion (Google Map)
FREE!
0 comments

[icon18_edi]

First Meeting of 2011!

Posted 1/4/11 at 9:29 PM by Sam

Hey everyone! SURE is having our first meeting of the quarter tomorrow,
Wednesday, January 5 at 6:30pm in the Harbor Room! (The Harbor room is
downstairs in the UCen, in the hallway between the Hub and the post office.

We'll be discussing events for the quarter and restarting our SURE awesomeness.
After the meeting, we'll go out to dinner somewhere in IV and hang like good
godless heathens.
0 comments

[icon18_edi]

Sell your soul for a cookie!

Sign over your everlasting soul to SURE, receive a cookie!

We're hosting a tabling event at which students and random passers-by can sign
an official-looking statement of transferral of soul in order to get a
delicious cookie.

When: Thursday, Oct. 14, 10am-4pm Where: In front of the UCen The event is
meant to incite thought and discussion on the topic of what a soul is worth.

There will also be a vegan and gluten free option available.... We are equal
opportunity soul buyers.
0 comments

[icon18_edi]

First Meeting of Fall '10!

Posted 9/28/10 at 9:22 PM by Sam

It's time for SURE's first meeting of the quarter! We'll be talking about what
kinds of awesomeness will be going on this quarter, including some of our
planned events and speakers, and we'll go into an introduction of the group for
SURE newcomers.

Other than the administrative stuff, we have plans to do something more fun and
social - after getting to know each other, we'll go outside for some outdoor
activities on the lawn behind the UCen.

The meeting is tomorrow (Wednesday, 9/29) at 6:00pm in the Harbor Room at the
UCen, which is in the lower level hallway between the Hub and the post office.

Sorry for the late notice; OSL still hasn't gotten back to us about where we'll
be meeting after this first meeting (the Harbor Room was our backup).
0 comments

[icon18_edi]

SURE's Annual Back to School Ice Cream Social!

Posted 9/19/10 at 10:32 AM by Sam

[darwin]It's time again for SURE's Back to School Ice Cream Social Meet and
Greet Godless Heathen Bonanza of Awesomeness!

Come eat ice cream with some of our current and prospective members! It's been
a great summer - don't let it pass without enjoying some delicious ice cream
with some of your fellow godless heathen. We'll be chillin' before classes
start and enjoying each other's company, and ice cream. It'll all start around
6:30 at Sam's and Jackie's house (6787 Estero Rd. House B - Google Map)

If you're on Facebook, join the SURE group and RSVP for the Ice Cream Social on
the event page.

WHERE:
Sam's and Jackie's: 6787 Estero Rd. House B (Google Map)

WHEN:
Wednesday, 9/22, 6:30pm

WHAT TO BRING:
- Recommended donation of $1 to help offset the price of ice cream (more is
always appreciated if you'd like to help out a little more).
- A topping of your choice.
0 comments

[icon18_edi]

Santa Barbara Humanists to host "Ingersoll Lecture"

Posted 9/2/10 at 2:17 PM by Sam

[Portrait]The Humanist Society of Santa Barbara is hosting one of their annual
"Ingersoll Lectures" in October and they're looking for people to apply to
deliver part of the lecture! The plan is for one student and one non-student to
give half of this year's lecture, selected from Ingersoll's collected public
lectures, in the spirit of Robert Ingersoll's intellectual legacy.

There are auditions to read the lecture in September, and the Santa Barbara
Humanists are giving a $300 prize to the winner of the auditions!

If you would like to participate in this year's lecture reading, auditions are
on September 25, with applications due September 18 - go to the Santa Barbara
Humanists' Ingersoll Lecture information page to learn more about the event,
and to find out how to apply.
0 comments

[icon18_edi]
 
[                    ]Submit

[surelogo]SURE is the secular student group on campus at UCSB. We bring
together atheists, agnostics, freethinkers, rationalists, secularists,
humanists, deists, and pantheists, among others, to make a stand for secular
values, reason, and rationalism.
●

Useful Links

Meeting Information

Membership Information

●

Follow Us

[facepng]Facebook

[twitpng]Twitter

[feedpng]Posts Feed

[feedpng]Comments Feed

●

Affiliated With:

[SSAlogo]
●

Check out the Out Campaign:

The Out Campaign: Scarlet Letter of Atheism
free web stats
●
●
 

  • Home
    Main Page
  • About Us
    info, officers, etc.
  • Events
    Calendar
  • Blog
    Godless musings
  • Links
    other sites
  • Photos
    SURE Shots
  • FAQ
    Any Questions?
  • Contact
    How to reach us

Creative Commons LicenseLicensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 United States License.
Opinions expressed on this page and/or the SURE blog do not necessarily reflect
those of the University of California, Santa Barbara.
Blog posts reflect the opinions of their respective authors, and do not
necessarily represent those of SURE.

about this site | site feedback | sitemap

