Skip to Login Skip to Content Skip to Secondary Navigation
Stanford University
 

  •  
    See All Communities

[q7i81pu6sk]
SAL

  • Facebook

Atheists, Humanists, and Agnostics at Stanford

  • Home
  • Forms
  • News
  • Polls
  • More
      □ Home
      □ Forms
      □ News
      □ Polls

Must be signed in to join

  • Feed
  • Profile

Atheists, Humanists, and Agnostics (AHA!) at Stanford holds weekly discussion
meetings on topics of interest to nonreligious students. We also organize
larger educational events, such as guest lectures, of more general interest to
the university community. All events are open to anyone, and we welcome
friendly and respectful dialogue with religious students and student
organizations.

Learning more about AHA!

  • If you are interested in learning more about our group and its events, sign
    up for our mailing list here, 
  • ... and join our facebook group here.

Getting involved

  • If you'd like to get more involved with AHA!, come to one of our weekly
    meetings (Wednesdays at 8pm in Old Union 302).
  • Or get in touch with one of the AHA! officers listed below.

Portal Information

Description

Atheists, Humanists, and Agnostics (AHA!) at Stanford holds discussion
meetings, social events, movie screenings, and much more, to support the
interests of nonreligious students. We also organize larger educational events,
such as guest lectures, of more general interest to the university community.
All events are open to anyone, and we welcome friendly and respectful dialogue
with religious students and student organizations.

Category

Religious

Website

http://aha.stanford.edu

President's Name

This person will be the primary contact for the University and external
entities

Aaron Silverman

President's Email Address

Please do not use email aliases or non-Stanford accounts

heshel@stanford.edu

VP/Co-President's Name

This person will be the secondary contact for the University

Mohit Mookim

Financial Officer's Name

This person is given access to request and process funds in myGroups2

Joshua Loftus

Organization's Facebook Page

This is for Facebook only. Your organization's website should be listed at the
top of this form. Keep the SAL Facebook as the default if you don't have one.

https://www.facebook.com/groups/aha.stanford/

Percent Undergraduate

Percentage of your members that are undergraduate students in your organization

41-50%

Target Population

To which populations do your events primarily cater? Check all the apply.

  • Undergrads
  • Grads
  • Coterms

Total Active Membership

Number of students that actively participate in the operations of the
organization. This is NOT the number of people on your mailing list.

35

Size of Leadership Team

Number of students involved in an officer role, board, or "core" of the
organization

3

Usual Meeting Day

When does the the organization typically meet?

Wednesdays

Usual Meeting Location & Time

Where and when can people find you? This is publicly viewable.

Old Union 302, CIRCLE Common Room, Wednesdays at 8pm

What is the organization's religious affiliation?

Atheist/Agnostic

Professional/Faculty Advisor's Name

Christine Min Wotipka

Professional/Faculty Advisor's Email Address

cwotipka@stanford.edu

Parent/National Organization

If your student organization is a chapter of a national organization, please
enter it below.

N/A

Administrator Use Only
Designated University Advisor

This is the assigned SAL advisor for this organization (exception for GSB orgs,
whose assigned advisor works in the GSB):

Ankita Rakhe

Loading... Please Wait
