logo
  Home     |     About Us     |     Events     |     Links     |     Contact
                                       Subscribe
 
   Leaders in Free Thought at Colorado State University

                      Upcoming Events

  Skepticamp Colorado 2011

  The Colorado State University Leaders in Free Thought
  will be hosting the next Skepticamp Colorado on
  February 26th, 2011. Skepticamp is an informal,
  community-organized event dedicated to exploring topics
  relating to science, skepticism, and critical thinking.
  Members of the community volunteer to give short talks
  on topics of their interest, which can be on anything
  from conspiracy theories to poisonous mushrooms.

  To learn more about the Skepticamp model, please visit
  the Skepticamp Wiki.

  To register for the event (free!), visit our page on
  the Skepticamp Wiki, and add your name!

  For a schedule of events (coming soon) and list of
  speakers, please visit the event webpage.

  Would you like to contribute to this event? Email Kai
  at skepticamp5280@gmail.com if you would like to give a
  talk!

  We also are looking for sponsors! If you are able, we
  would love for you to donate to Leaders in Free Thought
  through the Paypal button below. All donations will be
  applied directly to the cost of room reservations and
  food served at Skepticamp.

  PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *

  Location

  This event will be held in the Lory Student Center on
  the CSU campus. From College Avenue, turn west onto
  Laurel St. Take a left on Meldrum, which will take you
  into the parking lot in front of the student center.
  Parking is free on the weekends.

  If you enter the building on the south end, you will
  need to take two flights of stairs up to the top level.
  The opening ceremony will take place at 8 am in the
  Cherokee Ballroom. There will be signs near every
  entrance with instructions to the room. Admission is
  free.

   

  
  View Lory Student Center in a larger map

   

   

 
