skip to main | skip to sidebar
Illini Secular Student Alliance
About | Calendar | Facebook | ISSA Shop | Press Releases | Contact Us

Thursday, January 21, 2016

Kim Davis: The Hero That Bigots Deserve

Posted by Jenna Beebe at 2:13 AM


                    Kim Davis: The Hero That Bigots Deserve

            I’m sure I don’t need to explain to anyone who Kim Davis is. But,
just in case you’ve been living under a rock, and that rock is on another
planet in another galaxy, Kim Davis is a county clerk in Kentucky who has
continuously refused to give marriage licenses to same-sex couples. Recently
she was arrested and jailed for doing so (for the full story: http://
www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/
kentucky-clerk-kim-davis-held-contempt-court-n421126). The formal charge found
that she was in contempt of court for defying a judge’s order to start
distributing licenses. Even more recently, Davis appealed the charge and was
released. The same judge who placed her in jail decided during Davis’s appeal
process that she was no longer in contempt because the plaintiffs in the case,
a same-sex couple seeking a license, were able to obtain one through her deputy
clerks (for that story: http://www.cbsnews.com/news/
kentucky-clerk-kim-davis-released-from-jail/)

            So, as of now, Davis is a free woman. That is subject to change as
the legal system struggles to decide just what the hell to do with her. She’s
still not signing any licenses, and she has no plans of resigning. Her term as
county clerk isn’t up until 2018. Surely by then she’ll become stale news and
we can all go on to being angry and deeply divided as a nation about something
else. But, until 2018, the only way for Kim to lose her job is through
impeachment. Which, judging by the crowds of people praising her as a martyr
who stands against the anti-Jesus agenda of the wicked government, probably
isn’t going to happen anytime soon.

            I find Kim Davis and her fan club fascinating. Conservatives who
are singing praises in her righteous name do not want to acknowledge the level
of moral hypocrisy that Kim is bringing to this mess. She’s been divorced three
times and had an affair with her third husband while married to her first
husband. The children that resulted from the affair were adopted by her second
husband (link: http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/
clerk-who-denied-gay-marriage-licenses-has-been-divorced-multiple-n420216).
Holidays must be fun for them. Now, let’s see what the Bible has to say about
divorce and adultery.

            On divorce:

            “And he said to them, ‘Whoever divorces his wife and marries
another commits adultery against her, and if she divorces her husband and
marries another, she commits adultery.’” Mark 10:11-12
            “To the married I give this charge (not I, but the Lord): the wife
should not separate from her husband (but if she does, she should remain
unmarried or else be reconciled to her husband), and the husband should not
divorce his wife.” 1 Corinthians 7:10-11
            “So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God has
joined together, let not man separate.” Matthew 19:6

            On adultery:

            “He who commits adultery lacks sense; he who does it destroys
himself.” Proverbs 6:32
            “Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed
be undefiled, for God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous.” Hebrews
13:4
            “If a man is found lying with the wife of another man, both of them
shall die, the man who lay with the woman, and the woman. So you shall purge
the evil from Israel.” Deuteronomy 22:22
            “For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually immoral
or impure, or who is covetous (that is, an idolater), has no inheritance in the
kingdom of Christ and God.” Ephesians 5:5

            So, what gives? I’m curious: why do some Christians think they can
cherry-pick the Bible? Why do they think they get to decide what parts of the
Bible are super for-real and which they can just shrug their shoulders at? Why
is being gay such an affront to God, but divorce and adultery aren’t as
terrible? Is there a hierarchy of sins I’m unaware of? Is there a one to one
hundred scale of how bad your sins are compared to others? So my being gay is a
solid 88 while Kim Davis’s three divorces and adultery are a mellow 36? And
many Christians believe the sanctity of marriage is being destroyed by gay
people, not by people like Kim Davis?

            I realize that entire paragraph was nothing but questions. My
apologies. I’m just genuinely perplexed as to why Kim Davis of all people would
be appointed the chief of the morality police by zealous Christians. I feel
it’s important to note here that I’m referring to bigoted, fanatical
Christians. You know, the Kim Davis type. I have several Christian friends who
find her ridiculous, because their interpretation of their faith revolves
around tolerance—we are all sinners in the eyes of God, and gay people aren’t
any better or worse than anyone else. My closest friend, a devoted Christian,
doesn’t even consider being gay a sin.

            The legalities of the Kim Davis situation are also complicated. In
attempting to research the subject, I’ve found that many sources interpret
existing laws or bits of the Constitution in ways that fit their opinions.
Basically, many websites and articles that touch on the legal aspects of Kim
Davis’s actions have their own agenda to peddle. The underlying question
beneath the murky legal jargon and partisan bullshit is simply: does Kim Davis
have the legal right to refuse to sign marriage licenses for same-sex couples?

Kim Davis is an elected government official. And, according to an online NBC
article, “the Supreme Court has held that while public employees have the right
to speak out on matter of public concern, just as any citizen would, their
First Amendment rights concerning their jobs are different.” Said the Supreme
Court in a 2006 ruling: “When a citizen enters government service, the citizen
by necessity must accept certain limitations on his or her freedom.”

            This article (http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/
does-kentucky-clerk-kim-davis-have-legal-leg-stand-n420606) draws on the expert
opinions of a few law professors. One, Professor Steve Vladeck at American
University’s Washington College of Law, says, “She waived any right to have an
objection to issuing same-sex marriage licenses when she ran for the job.”
Another, Professor Jonathan Adler of Case Western University School of Law,
says, “Insofar as the state’s definition of an acceptable marriage differs from
her own, Davis is obligated to follow the state’s rule so long as she maintains
her current office.”

            Currently, the federal definition of legally recognized marriages
includes same-sex couples. If Kim is really so upset by how the government that
she’s currently working for defines marriage, she should step down. And
expressing her own private religious beliefs through her work is infringing
upon the rights of others, those same-sex couples who have the legal right to
obtain a marriage license, which, according to the state of Kentucky, must be
issued by county clerks. Davis’s own personal beliefs have nothing to do with
the state’s definition of marriage, nor should they, since legal marriage as
defined by the government has nothing to do with any established religion. If
the couple getting married wants a religious ceremony, and wants to interpret
their marriage in terms of their shared religion, that’s perfectly fine. But
that’s the private aspect of a marriage. The public aspect, which is what we
are concerned with, is all government-sanctioned benefits and signing licenses.
I hate to break it to Kim, but marriage is not an inherently religious
institution.

            Speaking of religion and how it has no place in government, the Kim
Davis fan club sure does throw the phrases “religious freedom” and “religious
liberty” around a lot. What they really mean when they say that is “the freedom
I think I have to impose my own privately-held beliefs on everyone around me.”
Maybe according to your religion the consumption of alcohol is sinful. Fine.
Stay away from alcoholic beverages. But that doesn’t mean I have to avoid
drinking just so I don’t offend your religious beliefs. Or maybe your
interpretation of your religion prohibits sex before marriage. Stay abstinent
then. That doesn’t mean everybody else around you should never have sex ever
unless they’ve put a ring on it. The same principle applies to the evil heathen
homosexuals like me and our evil heathen marriages. Maybe your take on your
religion is that being gay is terrible. Fine. Then don’t have sex with someone
of the same gender and don’t get married to someone of the same gender.
Regardless of what your perceptions are, people are still going to be gay.

Your beliefs don’t dictate what I get to do with my life because my beliefs are
different from your beliefs, is what I’m trying to say here. This is the true
definition of religious freedom: each individual having complete autonomy over
their own religion and their interpretation of it, or lack thereof. This is
what makes America so wonderful: the religion of some is not imposed on all,
and we are not a theocracy. And apparently this is also what makes America so
terrible, according to the Kim Davis fan club.

            Basically, Kim Davis is a hypocrite whose private religious
convictions do not get to define what marriage means in the state of Kentucky.
Marriage as an institution isn’t tarnished every time two people of the same
sex who love and respect each other take part in it. It’s tarnished when people
like Kim Davis respect it so little as to cheat on their spouses or get
divorced every time the wind blows. And yes, a person does have the right be a
Christian in this country. Nobody is trying to argue against that, contrary to
the paranoia of the Kim Davis fan club. What a person doesn’t have a right to
do is attempt to take away another person’s rights because their religion says
such and such.

For now, it seems that Kim Davis’s fifteen minutes of fame are up (to me it
felt more like an hour). The firestorm of constant media updates and comments
section rants has died down. But Kimmy still isn’t signing any licenses for
same-sex couples and still holds her position as county clerk. Does this mean
she’s victorious? Has she bested the oppressive Christian-hating government
(which weirdly is made up mostly of Christian politicians)? Who knows? All I
know is that Kentucky state law mandates that part of the job description of a
county clerk is to sign and distribute marriage licenses. And last I checked,
not doing your job is grounds for getting sacked. If jail time is no longer in
the cards for Kim, then being impeached should be.
0 comments ● ●

Friday, October 9, 2015

SSA Development: A Closer Look At Diversity

Posted by Katrina Halfaker at 5:54 PM
Many organizations and movements struggle with inclusivity, at some point. But
secular organizations, in particular the national affiliate SSA, are having a
uniquely difficult time catching up. While on an individual basis members and
faculty and staff may be ethical, prepared for meetings, and generally
respectful, there are a variety of privilege oversights which occur. Why do
they occur? Well, currently, over 82% of those who identify as atheist or
agnostic are white, and of that percentage, 56% identify as male (which is 8%
higher than the general public). Which makes one wonder, how has this
discrepancy prevailed?


While it may be simple to conclude, “Well, of course it must be lack of access
to higher education for under-represented groups!” such a statement isn’t
necessarily accurate. According to a Pew Research Center report conducted a
couple years ago, the groups with the highest rating of “HS Grad or Less” were
Black Protestants (50% of respondents) and Hispanic Catholics (71%). Across all
other groups, the ratios were roughly the same, or at least, their variance
wasn’t statistically significant. Only those who explicitly identify as atheist
or agnostic (instead of unaffiliated or nothing in particular) had the lowest
population for that category - at 26%. The percentage of those who identify as
atheist or agnostic as well as Black is 3%; Hispanic 6%; and Asian 4%; but the
percentage of Black, Hispanic, and Asian unaffiliated and nothing in particular
individuals is actually close to or above the general public percentile (the
rate expected to be found in a given population).


What this indicates is educational status is not a predictor for religiosity,
and neither is race. At least, insofar as this survey demographic goes. There
could be a generational gap we are not able to factor in at the moment, but
regardless the data is fairly straightforward when we're considering current
student affairs.


These trends indicate that people in leadership of secular organizations are
failing to address the needs of people of color and provide due representation.
While it is getting better, take a look at the SSA Staff and Board. Of course,
people can be all forms of different - gender, orientation, class, political
leaning, neurodiversity, and disability are all elements that should be
evaluated - but the majority also happen to be white.


This is just one example, but SSA does stand to improve on past mistakes and
could benefit from developing resources that critically examine these
disconnects.


SSA groups have a variety of options, but they mostly entail being
conscientious and beginning a dialogue. Actions and dictions of those
privileged by race, gender, orientation, ability, and class (etc) often on
occasion have the unintended consequence of marginalizing people who want to be
active in secular spaces. In my time with ISSA, I’ve dealt with a bit of
misogyny and ableism, trans slurs, general outbursts, and questionable
practices in addition to desperately-needing-revision application forms. Not
even strictly within our RSO have I encountered tall and scary walls. In the
community as a whole, it can be a quagmire of misconceptions and lapses in
realism. In the past six months I've witnessed considerable growth and an
impetus to take responsibility and make amends, collectively, so I don't fear
the future: I expect the future to start now.


Everyone transgresses. But everyone can do better. We can make this happen by
loudly and directly taking control of the conversation. Derail it when you have
to. Sometimes this means telling the white hetero cis male privilege
cheerleader in the front row to sit down. Criticism engenders trust, and it is
not an attack, even if they may feel that it is.


My internship training, peer guidance, and the wonderfully nuanced education
I’ve been so lucky to receive have helped me to draft a few recommendations to
SSA chapters broadly (but this is practical for any RSO), in the hopes that we
all learn how to eradicate and/or address issues before they snowball:



 1. Look over your officer applications and paperwork. Are you using
    appropriate terminology? If you ever have any doubts but want feedback, use
    sentences like, “How can we be more welcoming?” and “How can we be more
    representative?”
 2. When hosting meetings and events, do not assume what someone’s pronouns
    are. Until you receive verification or have a chance to ask privately; ask
    what their name is, and if the context doesn’t allow, make tentative use
    of: they, their, theirs.
 3. Post flyers in common areas of foot traffic, yes, but also consider hanging
    them in cultural houses, resource centers, and commercial ventures (with
    consent).
 4. Seek co-hosting opportunities with other RSOs, especially when a talk is
    intersectional. Example: If your speaker is a known secular humanist and
    queer feminist, reach out to LGBTQIA2P+ organizations.
 5. Be compassionate, but do not tolerate instances of bigotry from members or
    officers. Begin a system of documentation and schedule mediation if
    necessary. Designing a formal complaint template may assist in the process.
    (Note: this should be reserved for significant problems, not a failing to
    agree on a debated subject). You may add these mandates to your
    constitution and/or bylaws.
 6. Advocate and adopt transparency in all your dealings. The honesty will aid
    in preventing hurt feelings during discussions. Aside from that, understand
    that as an organization you should provide brief and clear explanations for
    any actions members find troubling, unexpected, or dubious.
 7. Hyperlink an anonymous suggestions box in email correspondences (or use
    paper if that’s more your thing). Websites like www.surveymonkey.com are
    immensely user-friendly. Conducting an open forum, wherein members and
    others can come speak about whatever might be upsetting them about the
    culture at large or what they would like to see accomplished is also a good
    route to take. Make sure the officer core is not insular.
 8. Participate in interfaith, human rights campaigns, and workshops in the
    area. Stand in solidarity with #BlackLivesMatter and #TransLivesMatter and
    other movements. Your absence as a group may not be evidence of complicity,
    but it does drastically reduce your ability to effectively work with new
    people who are educated in other arenas of thought and activism.
 9. Make sure that your meeting location is accessible for all, whether it be a
    matter of building accommodations or the content. By accessibility, I also
    mean: proof your presentations to avoid microaggressions and factual
    errors.
10. Develop a system in which you move away from using hierarchical language;
    as in, create roles for officers that accurately represent what they can do
    such that no one has more power in executive decision making than another,
    and do not hold officers to completing tasks that are not part of their
    core obligations.



And as always, Hail Satan.

Disclaimer: Only race categories used by Pew Research Center were used as part
of documenting social changes in this blog. They should not be taken to be all
encompassing of ethnic identities. Also, please note that "Hispanic" refers to
individuals who speak Spanish in the United States. These individuals may have
varying descents. Latinx is used to denote a person who is from a Latin
American country.

0 comments ● ●

Monday, April 27, 2015

ISSA Needs You

Posted by Bethany Bryan at 11:27 AM
Every summer, the Secular Student Alliance hosts a summer conference for
students, activists, and community leaders to attend in order to keep people
informed about current secular topics, and to help train secular leaders. ISSA
has traditionally sent members and officers to the SSA conference every year,
and we leave with great tools for organizing a secular group, connections to
other organizations, and a strengthened group.  We always look forward to
attending the SSA conference, but this year we need your help. This year ISSA
doesn't have the funds to send officers to the SSA conference so we're asking
for your support.

Last summer the conference included a talk from Katelyn Campbell about her
experience speaking out about a slut-shaming abstinence-only assembly held at
her high school, a workshop about how to debate run by Danielle Muscato, and
talks about interfaith work, recovering from religion, group organization
tools, and more. Two of ISSA’s very own also gave their own talks. Rebecca
Surroz, former Vice President of ISSA spoke about creating a safe space for
women in secular groups. Former ISSA officer Justin Tanaka gave a talk about
how to fundraise through benefit concerts. Aside from learning about secular
issues and gaining tools for running a secular club, ISSA also got the
opportunity to connect with other campus groups and meet a lot of great people.
The conference was an enriching experience that definitely helped ISSA grow.

This year the conference includes workshop training for setting up a Secular
Safe Zone, talks about inclusivity in secular groups, tips for participating in
secular activism, and a workshop run by Darrel Ray to help group leadership and
communication skills. This summer’s annual conference is July 10^th-12^th at
Ohio State University. If you’d like to learn more information or are
interested in registering, you can do so here.


We’d like to send four ISSA officers to the conference this summer, and with
registration costing $100 per person, we need $400 to get them there. If you’d
like to donate $5-$30, or anything you feel comfortable giving, you can do so
at www.gofundme.com/ISSAfundraiser. The conference has always been a great way
for ISSA to grow as an organization, and we hope that we will be able to attend
this summer.
6 comments ● ●

Wednesday, April 15, 2015

Ask an Atheist

Posted by ISSA at 11:39 AM
This Thursday, April 16th, is National Ask an Atheist Day. ISSA will be out on
the Quad once again answering any questions the curious masses may have. It is
a chance for our organization to put faces to atheism and, hopefully, break
down the barriers to allow for an open dialogue. On Thursday, we'll take the
time to reach out to the public and explain our point of view. As the event
approaches, I thought it would be nice to revisit my experience from last year.
[10013586_683736135026342_8716038321245118064_n]

The best part of the event last year for me was the opportunity to share my
point of view. The secular community comes from all walks of life and
backgrounds. Since I spent most of my life in the "atheist closet", it was very
freeing to openly talk about my journey. I was able to engage people who
genuinely wanted to know why I left religion. The participants were able to
express why they still believed and ask me to explain my stance on those
beliefs.

Ask an Atheist Day also gave me the chance to learn more about my fellow ISSA
members. We would occasionally talk to a group and explain personal
experiences. I had the opportunity to talk to some of the members who do not
frequent the meetings and learn about their background. It was interesting to
see some of the parallels in the stories we shared.

As this year's event nears, I have some wishes for the day. I hope that we can
reach out to the campus and help dis-spell the stereotypes of the internet
atheists. I hope we can bond as a group and really learn more about each other.
I hope that we can potentially find new members who may not know we exist.
Lastly, I hope that we can open the floor for a discussion between groups of
various religious backgrounds to help people understand each other better.
0 comments ● ●

Monday, April 13, 2015

The Nature of Naturopathy

Posted by Alex Nelson at 1:23 PM
Once in a while, the famous Facebook page I Fucking Love Science (IFLS) will
post a meme or link condemning the pseudoscientific, such as this venn diagram:
[2Ig3oUjjGOkIqrO8plZPawdRUxSkmKPiBcPUQve8CPEfpEtoxzhdGOX6RWWusGn9KqDyAxr]


When this particular meme was posted, the comments section was filled with
confusion and outrage over the inclusion of chiropractic therapy. Many people
said the practice saved them from having to undergo surgery or that it relieved
chronic aches and pains which had plagued them for years. How could this
popular, respected science page condemn a legitimate field of medicine that had
helped so many? As my father is a chiropractor and has run his own small
practice for years, my opinion of IFLS soured slightly whenever they posted
something that painted chiropractics in a negative light.


Yet, I am committed to following the evidence wherever it leads, and the
evidence has led me to some inconvenient conclusions about the realities of
chiropractic. I started to become suspicious when I learned about the claims of
homeopathy - a field my dad had spoken highly of in the past. I had always
looked to my father as a source of knowledge on all things related to health
and wellness, so I was shocked not only when I learned of the nature of
homeopathy, but also when my father confirmed his support of it. He was very
disappointed and confused when I told him I didn’t believe it was real. I told
him about the friends I had met in college who had explained homeopathy to me
and he couldn’t understand what motives these people could possibly have. They
didn’t even work for “Big Pharma.”


For me, this was when the whole mountain of bullshit started to crumble. Once
while driving me home for a break from school, he told me that my atheistic
position had already been discredited nearly a century ago by D.D. Palmer - the
founder of chiropractic. My father explained that the core idea of his
profession was that there is an “innate intelligence” in all life and in all
things. This intelligence was universal and god-like. He said this force kept
all of life in balance. Apparently, the body “knows” how to take care of
itself, and chiropractors simply help the body to do what it was designed to
do. He described Palmer as “probably insane,” but said many great scientists
were also “a little off.” He told me to research the “33 Principles of
Chiropractic” for myself to better explain what he was talking about. He told
me that these principles were listed in the very chiropractic textbook he
studied in chiropractic college.


I googled these principles that night. What I found was outright depressing.
The amount of nonsense I read in five minutes was so staggering I couldn’t even
react big enough. These 33 concepts were loaded with phrases like:
In order to have 100% Life, there must be 100% Intelligence, 100% Force, 100%
Matter.


…….Dafuq?


I wondered if there was any point in trying to talk to my dad about what I had
found online. Was anyone who could read sentences like that and not catch the
slightest whiff of bullshit worth trying to reason with? I eventually decided
the answer was “no.” Through further research, I learned that Palmer (an active
spiritist and magnetic healer) claimed not to have ‘discovered’ chiropractic
per se, but that he “received it from the other world” from a deceased
physician. I also found that early chiropractics had a faith-based aspect and
that Palmer had many connections to various forms of pseudoscience.


My entire life I had been told that ‘alternative medicine’ had so much to give
to the world, but it was being oppressed by conspiracies from the mainstream
medical community. This was so the “allopaths” (the ones one might refer to as
“real doctors”) could keep their monopoly on the medical field and push the
“naturopaths” (homeopaths, acupuncturists, chiropractors etc.) out of
existence. I believed this for the majority of my life, but a little research
tore that belief to shreds very quickly.


The aforementioned diagram got by far the most heat for its inclusion of
chiropractic, with far fewer commenters defending homeopathy, acupuncture, and
other additions. Chiropractic seems to have helped many people. I know that
whenever I was having back or neck pain, the typical adjustment from my dad
left me feeling much better for at least a few days. People would stumble into
his office barely able to walk due to back pain and leave upright and beaming
with relief. Former patients of his have traveled from other states just to be
treated by him once. There must be something going on here, right? Something...
good?


Research has shown chiropractic to be a generally safe and effective treatment
for acute lower back pain, neck pain, and headaches. It may also be moderately
effective in treating osteoarthritis and fibromyalgia. However, many smaller
caveats are untested and there is potential for harm. In rare cases,
manipulation of the neck can injure the spinal cord or overstretch the arteries
of the neck, causing a stroke.


There are other treatments used by chiropractors and similar practitioners that
seem less than scientific. For example, my dad also uses an “Energy Balancing
System” called the EB PRO in his office. This device was “designed and
developed to restore the body’s balance and energy levels through exposure to
an ion field.” The patient sits in a chair and places their bare feet in an
ankle deep container of water. Salt is added to the water as a catalyst. Then
“the array” is placed into the water.
[hpQlFyK-3KTFAIwdeYaENJSQaCtFLtSGXKtx1AmB8jBSqAGp8bYSCDRQU7bKCrRdQ-FncNnRP]
The array is small and cylindrical. It is attached by a wire to the EB PRO
itself, where various buttons allow its use. According to the manufacturer’s
website, the array creates an ion field by splitting the water molecules that
pass through it, creating an “ion field.” This ion field is said to be
therapeutic and to pull heavy metals and other impurities from the body through
the pores of the feet. Iron, zinc, and copper erode from the metal coils of the
array and form new compounds in the water.


Having seen many “foot baths” in person and having had one myself, I know that
thin clumps of a light brown solution begin to float on the surface of the
water after a few minutes. By the time the treatment is over, after about 20
minutes or so, the water is thick with this strange substance. It looks a
little bit like very fine sand. In my dad’s office, it is at least implied that
this…“brown stuff” is all the bad stuff this machine removed from the body
through the feet. I cannot prove this is not what’s happening, but
extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence, and the information
provided on this product’s website is lacking at best. It makes me wonder if my
dad realizes the dearth of information concerning this device. Meanwhile, the
total cost of the EB PRO and the stand it sits on is about $3400.


The EB PRO isn’t the only thing in his small practice that reeks of
pseudoscience either. A bookshelf behind the front desk includes several books
on homeopathy and one or two books by the medical con(victed) artist Kevin
Trudeau. My dad sells various herbal and dietary supplements over the counter
as well. Some of them seem to have merit, but a couple of the newer ones are
obviously junk. One promises to “deliver oxygen directly to the cells,” just by
adding a few drops of liquid to a glass of water each morning. Of course, “this
product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease” is
written in the smallest of print at the bottom of the bottle’s label.

My father also used to own two lasers that were said to speed healing and treat
a variety of ailments. To this day, I do not know that these devices were
complete garbage, but they were made by the same company as the EB PRO and
simply seemed far-fetched. I once saw an old man sitting in an exam room with
one of the lasers aimed onto his shoulder in an attempt at pain relief or
faster healing. He sat motionless for about fifteen minutes with two streaks of
dull red light streaked across his bare shoulder. I remember being skeptical
that anything effective was actually taking place. The lasers were eventually
retired due to a lack of enthusiasm from patients.


With its handful of proven benefits and its close relationship with nonsense,
how should we feel about chiropractic? My father prides himself on being the
type of chiropractor who doesn’t screw people over. Based on what I hear from
him, I think he’s telling the truth to a certain degree. He charges a modest
rate and spends time with his patients to isolate the problems they're facing.
This is compared with chiropractors who charge up to $100 for a few
one-size-fits-all adjustments and get someone in and out in five minutes. My
dad seems to genuinely care if his patients improve. That being said, he also
refers patients to homeopaths, discourages certain vaccinations, and preaches a
slight hostility to conventional medicine without much factual basis to back it
up. If one small practice contains so many red flags, and that practice is an
example of one of the good ones, should we give them any credit at all?

I say with extreme caution that we should. Perhaps I’m biased, but seems to me
that in his batshit craziness, D.D. Palmer accidentally discovered something
that helps people. If a chiropractor has helped you with back or neck pain in
the past, I say put up a wall of skepticism and visit one. When you strip away
the bunk, chiropractic serves a very small facet of medicine that is also
attainable by physical therapists and conventional doctors. Yet, the smallness
of that facet has allowed them to specialize in it and become particularly good
at it. If the majority can put chiropractic in perspective, I predict it will
eventually die out or be reformed to a more scientific approach. Whether or not
its days are numbered, its connection to pseudoscience doesn’t mean we can’t
reap the few benefits while also flatly rejecting the lunacy.

Special thanks to Mat King for editing this post.
3 comments ● ●
Older Posts Home

Search this blog

[                    ] [Search]
Donate to ISSA

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
●

ISSA In Pics

Loading...
●
Subscribe to our mailing list
[Subscribe]
●
●

Blog Archive

  • ▼  2016 (1)
      □ ▼  January (1)
          ☆ Kim Davis: The Hero That Bigots Deserve

  • ►  2015 (16)
      □ ►  October (1)
      □ ►  April (6)
      □ ►  March (5)
      □ ►  February (4)

  • ►  2014 (36)
      □ ►  December (2)
      □ ►  November (5)
      □ ►  October (4)
      □ ►  September (4)
      □ ►  August (2)
      □ ►  July (1)
      □ ►  April (4)
      □ ►  March (3)
      □ ►  February (7)
      □ ►  January (4)

  • ►  2013 (50)
      □ ►  December (4)
      □ ►  November (6)
      □ ►  October (2)
      □ ►  September (5)
      □ ►  August (2)
      □ ►  July (3)
      □ ►  June (2)
      □ ►  April (2)
      □ ►  March (6)
      □ ►  February (12)
      □ ►  January (6)

  • ►  2012 (86)
      □ ►  December (8)
      □ ►  November (8)
      □ ►  October (15)
      □ ►  September (8)
      □ ►  August (1)
      □ ►  July (6)
      □ ►  June (8)
      □ ►  May (4)
      □ ►  April (3)
      □ ►  March (4)
      □ ►  February (13)
      □ ►  January (8)

  • ►  2011 (102)
      □ ►  December (6)
      □ ►  November (8)
      □ ►  October (19)
      □ ►  September (16)
      □ ►  August (9)
      □ ►  July (9)
      □ ►  June (3)
      □ ►  May (4)
      □ ►  April (8)
      □ ►  March (6)
      □ ►  February (8)
      □ ►  January (6)

  • ►  2010 (182)
      □ ►  December (6)
      □ ►  November (12)
      □ ►  October (26)
      □ ►  September (25)
      □ ►  August (7)
      □ ►  July (5)
      □ ►  June (2)
      □ ►  May (16)
      □ ►  April (25)
      □ ►  March (25)
      □ ►  February (21)
      □ ►  January (12)

  • ►  2009 (54)
      □ ►  December (12)
      □ ►  November (15)
      □ ►  October (21)
      □ ►  September (5)
      □ ►  July (1)

  • ►  2008 (7)
      □ ►  September (2)
      □ ►  August (5)

  • ►  2007 (1)
      □ ►  March (1)

●
 
      (c) Copyright Illini Secular Student Alliance. Powered by Blogger.
