Beltway Atheists, Inc.

Good People, Not God People.

RSS  -  FACEBOOK  -  TWITTER

Beltway Atheists, Inc. Director for Educational Outreach is invited to speak at
Dominion High School

November 11, 2012 By Larry Mendoza Leave a Comment

Beltway Atheists, Inc. Director of Educational Outreach, Larry Mendoza, will be
giving a talk on Evolution and Creationism at Dominion High School (DHS) in
Loudoun County, November 15. This marks the third year that Larry has been
invited to speak at Dominion High School. This invitation has been extended by
the Dominion High School Free Thinkers, a student organized group designed to
promote free thinking, science and rationalism.

As Educational Outreach Director, Larry has been working with local high
schools and colleges to help promote scientific literacy, free thinking and has
been invited to attend meetings both formally and informally.

Beltway Atheists, Inc. is very excited to engage the local community to promote
free thinking, scientific literacy and secularism.

[evolution-and-creationism1-300x199]

Larry Mendoza talks to Dominion High School Free Thinkers

FESTIVUS 6

November 11, 2012 By admin Leave a Comment

Our 6th annual Festivus party will be held on Saturday, Dec. 8th, starting at
6:00PM.  No need to bring anything – food, drinks, and entertainment will be
provided.

To RSVP, go to NOVA Atheists website:  http://www.meetup.com/NOVA-Atheists/
events/90972732/

Be there or hear about it later!

Beltway Atheists Announces Changes to Our Board Membership

April 25, 2012 By Larry Mendoza Leave a Comment

We would like to thank Eric Santiago for his hard work and wish him well as he
departs from our Board of Directors to engage in other ventures.  Eric has been
instrumental in functioning as our IT guy, and helping Rick Wingrove with all
matters associated with web design and other IT functions.  Eric was always
quick to bring up ideas and had shared the same enthusiasm that we all have on
the Board.  He will be a great loss for us here at Beltway Atheists, Inc.  We
wish him well and good luck in his newest ventures.

The Atheists Are Coming! The Atheists Are Coming!

March 27, 2012 By Rick Wingrove Leave a Comment

Reason Rally on the Mall is a milestone event for the growing atheist movement

(Published in the Washington Post Local – March 22, 2012)

On Saturday, March 24, 2012, the National Mall in Washington will play host to
what is expected to be the largest gathering of atheists in history. Dubbed
Reason Rally, it will be attended by thousands of atheists, agnostics,
humanists, freethinkers, and non-believers of every stripe. It’s being called
Secular Woodstock. Music will be provided by the band Bad Religion.

But, the rally will be more than a soggy mosh for the religiously unpersuaded.
Reason Rally will show that all the cool people are atheists now and that the
days of consent by silence are over. It’s an appeal to millions of hidden
atheists to come out of their closets and join the fun.

[me-and-ellen-copy]Not to overstate the case, but Reason Rally has been 2,000
years in the making. For most of the last 20 centuries, atheism was highly
lethal. There were always plenty of non-believers, but Darwinism actively
selected against the outspoken. Religious dissent was brutally discouraged and
driven underground. The scope of non-beliefis only now becoming apparent.A
large public gathering of atheists is a relatively new thing in the world,
enabled by two pivotal events in human history: the U.S. Constitution and the
invention of the Internet. The Constitution guarantees that the rights of the
irreligious are exactly equal to the rights of the aggressively pious. The
Internet had Christians and Atheists arguing over evolution in ALL CAPS by the
end of the first day

The Constitution gave us the rights but the Internet gave us the voice. After
two millennia, atheists had a way to find each other and to demonstrate that we
are not the hell-bound, baby-eating monsters that the preachers warned you
about. It turns out that we are everywhere and we are here to stay. We are your
friends, family, neighbors, plumbers, politicians, and your IT guy. We are
patriotic Americans who love our country and do not, as is often suggested,
have to move to Russia.

Instead, we are just going to have a big party on the National Mall.

To put it in perspective, the rally is not likely to rival the sea of people at
Obama’s inauguration. But, it’s not the numbers that make Reason Rally an
important event. It is the spectacle of thousands of deity-free Americans, on
the Mall, carrying smart, funny signs and listening to the notorious
evolutionist, Richard Dawkins, explain why reality is important.

According to the most recent American Religious Identification Survey, over 75
million Americans are not Christians. Over 50 million of those have no
religious affiliation and profess little or no belief in a supreme deity. These
are the “Nones” and their numbers have doubled since 1991. The few thousand
godless Americans you will see on the Mall are just the tip of a large iceberg
– with a Darwin fish on the side.

Reason Rally will give a heads up to those who have been reluctant to recognize
the mushrooming numbers and the growing political presence of secular
Americans. There are millions of us, with legitimate concerns about government
endorsement of religiosity. Like women and birth control, we deserve a seat at
the table when the adamantly religious are deciding our fate.

Reason Rally is happening because it’s time for Secular Americans to be seen
and heard, to defend science, and separation of church and state. We’ll be on
the Mall because it’s time to push back against the creeping theocratization of
America.

Notice To Our Members and Donors

February 15, 2012 By admin Leave a Comment

We would like to inform our members and donors of a legal dispute in which
Beltway Atheists is currently involved.

On March 15, 2011, Beltway Atheists Inc. applied for a trademark with the US
Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). It was approved for publication on June
27, 2011 and published for opposition in the Trademark Official Gazette (OG) on
August 30, 2011 (http://tarr.uspto.gov/tarr?regser=serial&entry=85267284).  We
did so to protect our brand so we can accomplish our stated mission.

On September 28, 2011, 2 days before the opposition deadline, a trademark
opposition was filed by “Capital Beltway Atheists”, an unincorporated
association, by its officers Shelley Mountjoy and Christopher Arntzen,”
claiming exclusive rights to the name Beltway Atheists (http://
ttabvue.uspto.gov/ttabvue/v?pno=91201790&pty=OPP&eno=1). It is the opinion of
the Board of Directors of Beltway Atheists Inc. that this opposition is
completely without merit and we intend to fight this opposition and defend our
trademark vigorously. Our trademark was created in 2005, in continuous
operation since then, Incorporated in 2008, and received official non-profit
status in 2010. If we do not defend our name, it will minimize our
effectiveness in the local community, and Beltway Atheists could no longer
exist.

As a result of this dispute, Beltway Atheists Inc. has retained the services of
a lawyer to defend our trademark.

We’d like to apologize to our donors for any delays caused by this legal
issue to the goals and activities of Beltway Atheists and our social arm NOVA
Atheists, and thank you for your continued support and contributions.

Sincerely,

Rick Wingrove, CEO of Beltway Atheists Inc.

Rick is Profiled in the Washington Examiner

January 3, 2012 By admin Leave a Comment

[RickWingrove_Credo_400]On Sunday, January 1, 2012, Rick Wingrove was profiled
in The Washington Examiner. On Sundays, The Examiner runs a regular, full page
feature called Credo. Credo has previously featured people like Christopher
Hitchens and Barry Lynn as well as local religious and political figures.

You can read Rick’s Credo page online: http://washingtonexaminer.com/local/
people/2011/12/credo-rick-wingrove/2047971

Or you can read the PDF version of the page, pictured above: http://
beltwayatheists.org/pdf/RickWingrove_Credo.pdf

 

Full [unedited] Text of Rick’s Article @ The Washington Post

December 14, 2011 By Rick Wingrove Leave a Comment

“The War On Christmas”

The historic Loudoun County Court House in Leesburg Virginia is the site of an
ongoing clash
over religious displays on the lawn. A Nativity scene has been placed on the
lawn at Christmas
for decades. No other signage or displays were permitted. This amounted to
privileged access, a
special right provided to the local christian community by county government.

Two years ago, the Grounds Committee, tasked with preserving the lawn and the
century old
Sycamores, recommended that no more displays be placed on the lawn. There was
an immediate
backlash from the religious community, bemoaning the war on Christmas and the
unconscionable
attack on Christianity.

The Board of Supervisors, predictably caved, ignored the recommendations of the
grounds
committee, and permitted the religious displays to remain.

But, then they did a curious thing: they consulted the ACLU. The Board was
advised that access
for one required access for all. The Board decided to give free speech a chance
on the lawn and
began permitting up to 10 displays on the lawn. The local religious community
was enthusiastic
about free speech, possibly feeling that free speech was a more solid footing
for the continued
hosting of the christian displays.

In 2010, members of the Atheist community in Loudoun County acquired permits
for 7 of the 10
available spots on the lawn. The religious community’s enthusiasm for free
speech was
immediately revealed as the thin ruse that it was.

The religious community, as it turns out only believe in their own free speech.
They railed to
the Board and in the media to expel the secular displays from the lawn, calling
them an attack
on Christianity and an attempt to destroy Christmas.

Some of the displays were tongue in cheek, such as the Jedi and the Flying
Spaghetti Monster.
others were more abrasive, and openly questioned some core tenets of the
Christian mythology,
like the Santa/Easter Bunny/Jesus comparison. Others were more obtuse, honoring
the
Constitution and Separation of Church and State.

Over the last year, members of NOVA Atheists and Beltway Atheists have put a
banner on the lawn
every month, celebrating persons or events pertaining to Science or Separation.
Again, all have
been condemned as attacks on Christianity. All of the banners can be viewed at
beltwayatheists.org.

While it is entirely legal to criticize religion in this country, and there is
much to be
critical about, the monthly signs have never been directly critical of
Christianity and only
mildly and tangentially critical of religion.

The main function of the signs have been to demonstrate that the Board and the
religious
community were being disingenuous by facilitating the religious displays under
the banner of
free speech. Their knee-jerk, sky falling, full martyrdom response more than
makes the point.

This has all come to a head following the appearance of a display on the lawn
which outraged
the local christian community. The display was a skeleton Santa on a cross. As
one local new
camera rolled, a local Leesburg woman, short on understanding and high on
sanctimonious rage,
went on to the Court house grounds and vandalized the display. She did this in
broad daylight,
in front of a camera, and, to make it much worse, in front of a Loudoun County
Sheriff’s
Deputy.

The Deputy’s response to the vandalism of a legal display on government
property was to ask the
reporter to get off of government property because news cameras are not
permitted on the
grounds. The Deputy then walked past the vandal, declining to “get involved in
that” and went
back in the building.

Every regional news outlet picked up the story and were regaled with hyperbolic
wailing about this
unconscionable attack on Christianity.

This would be terrible… if it were true. As it turns out, the artist who placed
the display
is a Christian. AND, as it clearly states on his permit application, this was a
commentary on
the death of the true spirit of Christmas, sacrificed on the altar of Big Box
commercialism –
something that both atheists and Christians agree on.

Is there a lesson in all this? Yeah, several.

First, the ballistics, the hyperbole, the wailing and gnashing of teeth from
the christian
community is frequently divorced from relevant facts.

Second, the secular displays are not a war on Christmas – most of us celebrate
the holiday in a
fairly conventional way and have never suggested that anyone change that.

Third, The best place for the religious displays is on religious property. It
is fully
protected and no one cares about that. No ones rights to practice their
religion are diminished
by putting up any kind of religious display they want on their own property.

Fourth, The religious groups do not have an absolute right to occupy government
property. It is
by permit only. Permits can be denied.

Fifth, our only aim is to honor and protect the Constitution by making sure
that the Separation
of Church and State is rigorously observed.

We want all display banned from the court house lawn so that the Separation
deniers cannot use
government property for the support, endorsement, and advancement of their own
selfish and
partisan religious purposes. Government should never be in the business of
propping up
religion.

– By Rick Wingrove

EDITED: http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/
skeleton-santa-and-other-secular-displays-dont-equal-a-war-on-christmas/2011/12
/07/gIQABR9CuO_story.html

NOVA Atheists Display Is Now Up

December 11, 2011 By admin Leave a Comment

[2011-Dec-Seasons-Greetings-350]

Our Seasonal Attack on Christianity

On Saturday, Dec. 16, we put up our own display on the Loudoun County Court
House lawn. The NOVA display, like all of our previous displays, failed to
trash christianity or to attack christmas. The local christian community is,
predictably, outraged at the anti-christian, anti christmas hate speech in our
display. The obvious lesson here? Haters are just gonna hate. And facts
are irrelevant.

Our display followed a week of controversy following the vandalism of the
Skeleton Santa display.

Jeff Heflin, son of a NOVA Atheists member, but who refers to himself as a
christian, put up a skeleton in a Santa suit on a cross. It was clearly stated
in his Permit Application to the county that the art piece was critical of the
takeover of christmas by big box commercialism. This would seem to be something
that christians and atheists agree on. But naturally, the display evoked the
usual knee-jerk, sky-is-falling, full martyrdom response we get from the
christian community for any perceived insult, such as our continued attempts to
exercise our free speech rights.

The legally permitted display was vandalized in broad daylight, on government
property, in front of a Channel 9 camera and in front of a Loudoun County
Sherriff’s Deputy, by a local christian woman who imagines that the test of
Free Speech is whatever offends her. The Deputy walked around the vandal and
forced the news camera off the Court House property, then walked back past the
vandal, refusing to “get involved in all that,” and disappeared back into the
County offices. Despite the fact that the footage of the vandalism, showing the
woman boasting of her righteous indignation, and of the Deputy ignoring the
crime, was shown twice on Channel 9, there has been no arrest.

That the christian community was absolutely wrong about the display did not
alter their narrative, that it was an atheist attack on christianity. And their
lament included the usual nonsensical contradiction. They would, in one breath,
claim to be an overwhelming majority, apparently thinking that the rights of
minorities depend upon the  permission of the majority, and, in the next
breath, claim to be oppressed by atheists, even as they stand holding a sign
asserting that only 2% of Americans are atheists.

But the christian community never fails to deliver. The following email, sent
to each board member of Beltway Atheists,  would seem to represent the
sentiment of some of the more adamant, vocal, and impulse control-challenged
members of the christian community:

    sigh, you people suck for what you are doing in Leesburg, assfucking clowns
    if you ask me…since you are open minded and tolerant, send your whore wives
    over and let me skull fuck them while you watch…you cocksuckers are nothing
    more than pussy ass contrarians that are full of shit and can kiss my
    motherfucking ass…I love free speech too you limped dick pussy ass
    motherfuckers…love and joy, Stace.

Hey, Stace! Learn that in church?

Our November Banner – Carl Sagan

October 30, 2011 By Rick Wingrove Leave a Comment

[Carl-Sagan-copy]

Carl Sagan, who introduced many of us to the Cosmos, is honored in our November
banner. In his book The Demon-Haunted World, Dr. Sagan reminds us that Reality
is always preferable to comforting superstitions – a sentiment embraced by all
rational people. Dr. Sagan’s birthday is November 9th.

Our October Banner – Imagine!

October 6, 2011 By Rick Wingrove Leave a Comment

John Lennon - Imagine

Imagine

The poignant lyrics of John Lennon’s Imagine, serve as a defacto atheist anthem
to many of us. John’s October birthday gives us ample reason to remind the
public of not only his life and music, but of the message in his music, that
the world would get along fine without religion. So, for our October display on
the Loudoun County (VA) Court House lawn, we remember John Lennon and his
tribute to freethought.

Science on the Lawn

August 3, 2011 By Rick Wingrove Leave a Comment

[darwin_august_400]

The best idea anyone ever had.

On August 20, 1858, Charles Darwin first published a synoptic version of On the
Origin of Species in the Zoological Journal of the Linnean Society of London.
Darwin’s Law is the foundation of all biology. With Evolution, biology is
coherent and discoverable – without Evolution, biology makes no sense at all
and we would be left with only Bronze-age mysticism. After 150 years, Darwin’s
law is universally acknowledged by Scientists and remains uncontradicted by a
single shred of evidence. In fact, it is reconfirmed daily with the discovery
of every new addition to the fossil record.

Darwin’s synthesis of Evolution by natural selection is not merely
earthshatteringly brilliant, it has been called the best idea anyone ever had.
Given that, Darwin’s first publication of On the Origin of Species is certainly
noteworthy and is the subject of our banner for August.

We will be erecting the banner in our usual spot on the Loudoun County
Courthouse lawn – at the corner of King and Market Streets in old town
Leesburg, VA.  The public is invited to attend .

Atheists Among Us

July 23, 2011 By Rick Wingrove Leave a Comment

    This article appears in the Washington Post On Faith section (Saturday July
    22, 2011 – http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/guest-voices/post/
    panelist-atheists-among-us/2011/07/22/gIQA4JzoTI_blog.html). The print
    version was edited for space. This is the unedited version. – RW

[RW_pic_99_150]You know that guy down the street? Nice guy, about 50, IT
consultant, first guy on the block to clear his walks and mailbox after every
snow, fought in Desert Storm, keeps his yard immaculate, put two daughters
through college, donates to the VFD and for breast cancer research, remodeled
his own basement, and puts up a flag every 4th? That guy?

Well, that guy is an atheist. Not a communist, never been in jail, and doesn’t
eat babies. Just an atheist, without all that other stuff. An atheist in
America in the 21st century has nothing to do with the former Soviet Union.
Nor, despite what you might hear in church about the degenerate character of an
atheist, is he anymore likely to end up in prison than anyone else in the
general population.

The new atheist is a different kind of animal that bears no resemblance to the
villainous monsters the churches have warned us about for the last fifteen
hundred years. The new atheist is no longer a social pariah, though a lot of
political resistance and faith-based bigotry still exist.

Despite that, non-believers enjoy the full protection of the Constitution, and
possess exactly the same rights as the most religious of Americans. Still, it
took the advent of the internet for non-believers to find each other and to
find their voice.

Largely as a result of the electronic emergence of the vocally irreligious,
America’s religious makeup is changing rapidly. The American Religious
Identification Survey (ARIS), conducted in 1990, 2001,and 2008, shows that
America is trending rapidly away from Christianity, falling from 86% to 76% of
the population in only 18 years.

One in four Americans is not a Christian. That’s 75 million Americans. Over 50
million of those claim no religious affiliation. ARIS refers to them as the
“Nones”. This begs the question – how, exactly, is ‘atheist’ defined?
Technically an atheist is simply someone who does not believe the ancient
deities are real. That definition describes 12-15% of Americans, though only
1-2% refer to themselves as atheists. But, that is likely the result of fifteen
hundred years of bad press.

The Nones (including non-believers and the unaffiliated), by the way, are the
3rd largest “religious” group  in the survey, outnumbering Jews, Muslims,
Mormons, Buddhists, Hindus, Jehovah’s Witnesses, and Southern Baptists
combined. An additional irony is that even though 76% of Americans are
nominally Christian, only 70% of Americans believe in a personal god. Go
figure.

The average atheist in America is invisible. Many choose silence rather than
upsetting their family, or for fear of losing their job, and most are not
inclined to activism. That’s because ,for most of the last two thousand years,
it was highly lethal to raise your hand when the question was asked.

But, atheists are everywhere. They are your family, friends, neighbors,
co-workers, cops, doctors, businessmen, celebrities, and the guy who fixes your
computer. They are educated, they raise families, they hold jobs, they are
active in their communities, they play by the rules, and are generally happy to
fly under the radar of the professional evangelizers. So, when you say you
don’t know any atheists, what you are really saying is that you don’t know who
the atheists are.

And that guy the cops frog marched out of his house last week at 3:00AM?  He’s
your five term representative who ran on family values and has a wide stance.
His humiliating arrest, for purchasing meth from a gay prostitute, came as he
was awaiting sentencing for tax evasion on income from a sweat shop in Saipan,
and still reeling from his indictment for child porn.

Well,
that guy’s not an atheist.

I’m just sayin’.

Rick Wingrove to appear on Thom Hartmann’s The Big Picture

July 5, 2011 By admin Leave a Comment

Rick will appear on Thom Hartmann’s cable program, The Big Picture, tonight at
9:00. The discussion will be about American Atheists’ aerial banners which were
flown in 26 states on July 4th. The banners are intended to make the point that
atheists are patriots and that the U.S. is not a christian nation.

The show will air locally on cable but is not available everywhere.

DC Metro Area
Comcast -­ channel  274;
Verizon Fios -­ channel  455;     
Cox Cable -­ channel  473;     
RCN Cable -­ channel 33;     
Over the Air -­ digital channel 30.4;     
Dish Networks (DC Area Only) -­ channel 8084.

More information about Thom Hartmann available here: http://
www.thomhartmann.com/tv

Rick Wingrove on CNN

July 2, 2011 By admin Leave a Comment

On the American Atheists 4th of July Banners

Rick Wingrove, head of Beltway Atheists, Inc., and Virginia State Director for
American Atheists, will appear on CNN Sunday Morning on Sunday, July 3, at 8:30
AM. Rick will be interviewed by the host, T.J. Holmes, regarding the aerial
banners that American Atheists will be flying over 26 American cities on the
4th of July.

There are 2 banners: One says, GodLESS America; the other says, Atheism is
Patriotic.

The purpose of the banners is to raise awareness of atheists in American and to
make the point that atheists are patriotic Americans and proud citizens with
rights fully equal to the most adamantly religious.  The banners will also
illustrate the point that Separation of Church and State is built into the very
fabric of the Constitution.

American Atheists is already meeting stiff resistance to both the message and
the method. Some opponents complained heatedly about the billboards – which
were enormously successful for raising awareness and raising funds, as well as
getting a lot of airtime for atheists on the news channels. But most opponents
simply hate the messengers and the message and would silence us if possible.
There is already near apoplexy in certain parts of the christian community.

Nevertheless, watch Rick on Sunday and look for a banner flying near you on
July 4th!

┌────────────┬─────────────┬────────────────────┬───────────────────────────┐
│ Time       │ State       │ Cities             │ Location                  │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1200-1300  │ Alabama     │ Orange Beach, Gulf │ State Line to Bayou la    │
│            │             │ Shores, Dauphin    │ Batre                     │
│            │             │ Island             │                           │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1900-2000  │ California  │ Los Angeles, Santa │ Santa Monica to Manhatten │
│            │             │ Monica             │ Beach                     │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 0900-1000  │ Colorado    │ Denver             │ Greely Stampede           │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 0900-1000  │ Conn.       │ Mystic, New        │ Mystic, Stonington, Sandy │
│            │             │ London, Groton     │ Point, New London         │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1100-1200  │ Florida     │ Miami Beach, South │ South Beach to Lauderdale │
│            │             │ Beach              │                           │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1030-1200  │ Illinois    │ Racine, Zion,      │ Racine South to Zion      │
│            │             │ Libertyville       │ -Waukegan – Libertyville  │
│            │             │                    │ -Highland Park to Grays   │
│            │             │                    │ Lake                      │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 0900-1000  │ Indiana     │ Lake Potaka, Paoli │ Patoka Lake / Paoli Area  │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1030-1230  │ Louisiana   │ Mandaville,        │ Mandaville Seafood Fest/  │
│            │             │ Covington,         │ Mandaville Downtown       │
│            │             │ Abita Springs      │                           │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1500-1600  │ Mass.       │ South Cape Cod     │ Osterman to Chatham       │
│            │             │                    │ Beaches                   │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1900-2000  │ Michigan    │ Detroit            │ Downtown/ Heart Plaza     │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1300-1400  │ Minnesota   │ Parade Forrest     │ Parade Forrest Lake/      │
│            │             │ Lake, Roseville    │ White Bear Lake/          │
│            │             │                    │ Roseville Fest            │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1100-1200  │ Mississippi │ Biloxi, Gulfport   │ Biloxi Beaches            │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1000-1100  │ Missouri    │ Lake of the Ozarks │ Osage Beach               │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 0800-0900  │ Nebraska    │ Lake Whitney       │ Chadron/Lake Whitney      │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 0900-1000  │ New Jersey  │ Long Branch, Sandy │ Long Branch To Sandy Hook │
│            │             │ Hook Beaches       │ Beaches                   │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1000-1100  │ New York    │ Harbor, Liberty    │ Harbor Liberty Island     │
│            │             │ Island             │                           │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1500-1600  │ N. Dakota   │ Grand Forks        │ Grand Forks/Downtown      │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1700-1900  │ N. Carolina │ Coast              │ South border to 20 miles  │
│            │             │                    │ Myrtle Beach, then up/    │
│            │             │                    │ down coast until 7        │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1900-2000  │ Ohio        │ Toledo             │ Downtown/ Zoo             │
│            │             │                    │ Amphitheater              │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1600-1700  │ Oregon      │ Portland,          │ Downtown Vancuver &       │
│            │             │ Vancouver          │ Portland/Stadium          │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1000-1100  │ Rhode Is.   │ Coast              │ Westerly, Watch Hill,     │
│            │             │                    │ Misquamicut, Weekapaug,   │
│            │             │                    │ Charlestown, Green Hill,  │
│            │             │                    │ Matunuck, Point Judith,   │
│            │             │                    │ Scarborough, Narragansett │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1000-1100  │ S. Carolina │ Myrtle Beach       │ N. Myrtle Beach to Garden │
│            │             │                    │ City                      │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 0900-1000  │ S. Dakota   │ Rapid City         │ Downtown/Parade           │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1600-1700  │ Texas       │ Ft. Worth,         │ Rangers Pregame           │
│            │             │ Arlington          │                           │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 1700-1800  │ Wash.       │ Seattle            │ Gas Works Park Myrtle     │
│            │             │                    │ Edwards Beach             │
├────────────┼─────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┤
│ 0900-1000  │ Wisconsin   │ Racine, Milwaukee  │ Racine – Oak Creek –      │
│            │             │                    │ Bayview – Greenfield and  │
│            │             │                    │ back to Racine via        │
│            │             │                    │ Franklin                  │
└────────────┴─────────────┴────────────────────┴───────────────────────────┘

June Display Is UP:John Adams and the Treaty of Tripoli

June 20, 2011 By Rick Wingrove Leave a Comment

[adams_400]On June 7, 1797, the U.S. Senate ratified a treaty. No big deal –
they do that all the time. What was different was that this particular treaty,
early in our history as a nation, contained the following sentence:

    ” As the Government of the United States of America is not, in any sense,
    founded on the Christian religion,—as it has in itself no character of
    enmity against the laws, religion, or tranquility, of Mussulmen,—and as the
    said States never entered into any war or act of hostility against any
    Mahometan nation, it is declared by the parties that no pretext arising
    from religious opinions shall ever produce an interruption of the harmony
    existing between the two countries.”

What is interesting about this treaty, especially given our current political
climate, is that it explicitly denies any alleged relationship between the
Constitutional government of the United States and the christian religion.
Further, this treaty was UNANIMOUSLY ratified by the Senate and signed by our
second president, John Adams.

Imagine getting anything containing that verbiage through Congress today.

Nevertheless, Our June display on the Loudoun County, Virginia Courthouse lawn
is up, reminding those who have forgotten that our government has nothing to do
with the gods of the bronze age and that our government, does not, in any way,
endorse theocracy; our government is a FIREWALL against theocracy.

Science On The Lawn

May 13, 2011 By Rick Wingrove Leave a Comment

[Science_May_350]Our  Free Speech campaign continues on the lawn of the Loudoun
County Virgina Courthouse. The campaign features banners honoring Science and
Scientists, and, alternately, persons or events pivotal to our Constitutional
Separation of Church and State. Indeed, whatever the subject, the real point is
Separation. We make our point by simply being there.

 This Month – May 2011 – we are featuring Science, with a great quote from A.C.
Grayling’s new book, a humanist bible, appropriately called “The Good Book”.
The quote is from Genesis 2 Verse 1.

Thomas Jefferson On The Lawn

April 11, 2011 By Rick Wingrove Leave a Comment

[TJ1_350]

Thomas Jefferson On The Lawn

Our monthly banner on the Courthouse lawn celebrates the birthday – April 13 –
 of  Thomas Jefferson, author of the Declaration of Independence, author of the
Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom, Founder of the University of Virginia,
and third President of the United States.

Thomas Jefferson also coined the term “Separation of Church and State” in a
letter to the Danbury Baptists in 1802. Separation of Church and State is
shorthand for the absence in our Constitution of an official religion. Thomas
Jefferson and the majority of the Founders agreed that it religion was a matter
of personal choice and not a matter for the government to decide for all.

Hence, the Framers drafted a Constitution which outlines the form and function
of our government in exquisite detail. The document devised the three branches
of government, the division of powers, and the checks and balances between the
branches.

The Framers also inserted two explicit prohibitions and two implicit
limitations on religion in the Constitution. Explicitly,  Article Six prohibits
a religious test for elected or appointed office under the Constitution.
Explicitly,  The First Amendment prohibits the imposition by law of an official
religion.

The “free exercise” places an implicit limitation on religion because everyone
has free exercise; the free exercise of one person stops halfway to the next
person.

But the Big Implication is that the Framers, when designing our
government,  defining the domains and the powers of the branches, and the
rights of the people, provided no role for any religion in our government for
any religion.

That fact alone is fatal to all christianist proclamations about a “christian
nation”.

You can see the banner through April 24th at the corner of King and Market
Streets, on the Courthouse lawn in old downtown Leesburg, Virginia.

Breakfast with Richard Dawkins

April 5, 2011 By admin Leave a Comment

[dawkins]

Dr. Richard Dawkins

On Monday morning, April 4th, a small group of 30 people sat down to Breakfast
with Dr. Richard Dawkins. The event was a fundraiser for Beltway Atheist Inc.,
arranged because of our affiliation with American Atheists, and the close
cooperative realtionship between American Atheists and the Richard Dawkins
Foundation.

The Breakfast was held at Busboys and Poets in Shirlington, Virginia. Despite
taking place at 9:00AM on a Monday morning, all available seats were taken.
There was no one present who had not read The God Delusion.

Rather than make a prepared speech, Dr. Dawkins headed an open discussion.
Tables were set up conference-style, so everyone had an opportunity to engage
directly in the discussion with Dr. Dawkins.

Discussion touched lightly on Evolution – since there was no dissent in the
room – and focused more on Science education, the way it is currently failing
in the US, and possible approaches to begin to reverse the downward trend. No
one can dispute that Science education has been under attack in the US and has
sustained damage under the assault from the radical christianism of the right.
It will take a focused and sustained effort from the Community of Reason to
repair the damage.

One of the most practical and realistic suggestions made by Dr. Dawkins was, in
confronting school systems that are permitting the science of evolution to be
silenced and supplanted the science with stealth creationism, to keep the
science separate from Atheism. In other words, don’t make the debate about
atheism or that is all it will be about. Make it about Science and stay on
point.

Additionally, monitor your kids’ schools, find out what is going on in science
classes and find ways to document religious intrusions.
Also present was Dave Silverman, president of American Atheists, who spoke
about the growth and outreach of a revitalized American Atheists Organization,
recoverning from a decade of decline to take an aggressive new lead in the
advancement of atheism, and in defending the Constitutional separation of
religion and government.

Present at the Breakfast were people who drove in from Baltimore and Richmond,
and one guy who flew in from Chicago for the event. There were at least 3
teachers, one EMT, the local head of CFI, and one high school student cutting
class. There were student leaders from American University, VCU, and Johns
Hopkins in Baltimore. It as a diverse cross section of the Atheist community
who took advantage of a very rare opportunity.

This was a very unique opportunity to meet and talk directly with one of the
most recognizable and accomplished  people in the Atheist community – someone
whose book is probably visible from where you are sitting.

With the generous donation of time and resources by The Richard Dawkins
Foundation and American Atheists, Beltway Atheist raised $5000 which will be
applied towards the goals in our mission statement: the advancement and
acceptance of atheism, the advancement of science and science education, and
the defense of separation of church anxd state.

A Small Victory

March 30, 2011 By admin Leave a Comment

[tjefferson]

Thomas Jefferson

In March, even as Einstein was still sitting proudly on the lawn of the Loudoun
County Courthouse in downtown Leesburg, I submitted an application to the
county to put up our next display in April.  By luck, Thomas Jefferson has an
April birthday. It just seemed ideal for our next exercise in free speech.

This morning my application was denied in a terse email from the county. Back
to that in a minute.

As many of you know, Beltway Atheists is engaged in  a program I informally
call Science on the Lawn, although it will inevitably include figures related
to Separation. This all started before Christmas of 2009 when the county,
fearing it would get sued, decided with the help of the ACLU, that if they
wanted to keep the Nativity scene they had hosted for the last 40 years, they
were going to have to let others put displays on the Courthouse lawn. So we
did.

Free speech is a tricky thing, as the county has discovered. It turns out that
certain elected officials were not counting on people, especially the atheist
community, actually using it. And they seem less than enthusiastic about it now
that we are actually taking advantage of it. For Christmas of 2010, the atheist
community put up displays in 6 of the 10 available spots on the Courthouse lawn
including the coveted corner spot where the nativity scene had always been set
up.

Some local officials have made no secret of their disdain for our very
presence. Prior to our Einstein display, another member, Larry M. and I
attended a Grounds Committee meeting to observe the process and to make sure
that no one was trying to screw us. Someone was trying to screw us. One member
of the community clearly resented our presenced and seized on a technicality to
try to deny us a permit. The technicality? We had not stated a specific
numbered spot where we wanted to place our display. That was not an oversight –
it was what we had been instructed to do by the county when there were
applications for all of the spots. We were told not to ask for a specific spot
because they would be handed out on a first come, firt served basis. Besides,
there were no other applications for displays, so I wasnt competing agains
anyone for a spot!

So when the surly board member tried to pull that , I quickly pulled out the
extra copy of the application that I had brought with me, scribbled in a plot
number and put it in his hands. Figuratively speaking, his head exploded. But
we got our permit.

So anyway, this morning our permit for April was denied. I suspected that that
might happen because there were other members of the Grounds committee who were
also openly contemptuous of our assault on the regular order in the county.
Another clue was when the contact for the Grounds committee emailed me a few
day ago asking me to submit the content of our display in advance for
consideration. I declined to do that. To do so would have been an agreement to
censorship – a concession that the content was subject to the approval of
people who had previously tried to prevent our participation.  The denial email
stated the failure to submit content for approval as the reason for the denial.

So, I pulled out the General Rules on the county website. These are the rules
the county agreed to and put into effect less than a year ago –  rules they
grudgingly agreed to so that they could continue to invite the religious
displays onto the lawn with legal coverage. And, just as I thought, the rules
do not require anyone to submit their content for approval.

I immediately responded to the denial email, informing the county that the
committee was once again seizing on a technicality to deny me permission to put
up a display, but with one major difference: this technicality was not in the
published rules.

I also wrote an appeal letter to be hand delivered to the office of the County
Administrator the next day. As I carefully constructed a very grown up sounding
appeal making my case point by point, I had no idea that it would never be
delivered.

Late in the day, the Chairman of the Grounds committee called me at home. When
I met him at the committee meeting  we attended, I immediately pegged him as a
closet atheist and an ally. I was not mistaken. He told me that he wanted to
help me get my permit through so that I could put up the Jefferson banner as
requested in time for Tom’s birthday. He was going to walk it around to the
other members and get it approved by the next day.

But, disappointingly,  he asked me to submit the contents of the banner for
approval because it was the only way he would be able to get signoff from a
mojority.

Just to put it behind us, Ioffered this compromise: I said I would, as a
courtesy to the committee,  provide the text of the banner to him IF he would
first get a statement from the committee acknowledging that what they were
asking was not required by the rules.  The committee chairman said he would see
if he could get some version of that statement agreed to by a majority.

Less than a half hour later, the chairman called me back and told me that I was
correct, that I was absolutely NOT required to submit content for approval and
that my permit had been approved.

If you are keeping score, that’s a clean win. Thomas Jefferson will go up as
scheduled in April. This has been a very long day.

Application Submitted for April Display

March 9, 2011 By admin Leave a Comment

[thumbnail10]Today, I submitted the application to the Loudoun County VA
committee that approves displays on the Cour House lawn. The April display will
feature Thomas Jefferson, whose birthday is on April 13th, and will focus on
Separation of church and state.  This follows February’s Darwin Display and
March’s Einstein Display which is still up at the Loudoun County Court House. 

The Darwin and Einstein are part of our Science on the Lawn series. The
Jefferson Display will be the first banner in our Separation on the Lawn
series.

We intend to put a banner on the Court House lawn every month this year.

Donate to Beltway Atheists, Inc.

Donate to Beltway Atheists. Your tax-deductible donations support our ongoing
activism, education, and outreach. They are our primary source of income and
are greatly appreciated.
PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online. *
Facebook

Our Official Facebook Page:

Links

  • American Atheists
  • American Humanist Association
  • Atheist In America
  • Center For Inquiry
  • NOVA Atheists
  • Richard Dawkins Foundation
  • Secular Coalition

Sign In / Register

  • Log in
  • Entries RSS
  • Comments RSS
  • WordPress.org

Leadership

Rick Wingrove - CEO
Ellen Birch - CFO
Larry Mendoza - Director
Alysen Dunleavy - Director

Beltway Atheists, Inc.

Beltway Atheists is a non-profit, educational organization. All dues and
donations are deductible for income-tax purposes.

Events

@Meetup.com

  • Beltway Atheists Inc.
  • NOVA Atheists

Contact Us

Email: eb@beltwayatheists.org

Return to top of page

Copyright (C) 2016 · Beltway Atheists, Inc.

