UNCG Atheists, Agnostics & Skeptics

Pages

  • Home
  • About Us
  • Events Calendar
  • Videos
  • Links

●

Monday, October 28, 2013

Light the Night Walk

By Ryan Campbell

The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society is a global organization that works to
promote awareness about various blood cancers such as the two aforementioned
and others such as Hodgkin's Disease and Myeloma. They hold events globally
that are called Light the Night Walks. These provide the opportunity for
members of the community to come together, raise money, and walk with others
who care as much as you do about the prevention, and hopeful eventual cure for
these diseases that are far too prevalent. The age groups varied from toddlers
being pushed in strollers, to elderly people strolling along, but they all had
one thing in common: they all wanted to see blood cancers eradicated.

The organization for the UNCG Atheist, Agnostic, and Skeptic Light the Night
Team was done by one of our vice-presidents, Grace Shaughnessy, who was our the
team captain. Overall, we helped raise $366.15, all of which went to the
Leukemia and Lymphoma Society. Then came the walk.  On October 19, Julia
Alexander, Jennifer Ethridge, Grace Shaughnessy, and myself went to the
Greensboro Country Park where we got to walk around the lake there and see the
beauty of all the different colored lighted balloons shining a light on blood
cancer. As our president, Julia Alexander, said: "Light the Night was such a
humbling, moving experience. As we started out on the trail, it first went
uphill and around the curve, following the lake. As we reached the top and
looked back, the sheer amount of lit balloons was breathtaking. It was a
beautiful, moving, inspirational yet devastatingly sad scene all at once." The
beauty that Julia here is mentioning cannot be fully depicted in this
photograph but it will have to do.
[1375958_837009809133_1173068052_n] 
 
All of the points of lights that can be seen here are balloons that people
carried if they raised enough money, out of all of us, Jennifer was the only
one who raised the allotted amount but to the rest of us it was not about that,
overall it was about being a part of something that is just so moving and
heartbreaking at the same time and being able to be part of such a force for
good that will change the face of cancer in the future. It was a great
experience and I for one, as I am sure others are as well, looking forward to
this event next year.
Posted by Ryan Campbell at 10:05 PM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Wednesday, October 2, 2013

Speaker Dan Linford Discusses: Are Science and Religion Compatible?

 by Christi Sevits
[dltalk2]

Last Thursday, September 17th, our group hosted speaker Dan Linford. Linford is
a physics graduate and is currently pursuing a graduate certificate in
philosophy, studying the history of atheism as well as how science and religion
interact with each other . His topic was "Science and Religion: Are They
Compatible?" His talk consisted of a PowerPoint presentation and a Q&A session
in which members of the audience, no matter their opinions on his conclusions
on the topic, could get their unanswered questions addressed.

[dltalk1]
Unfortunately, I cannot provide any personal thoughts, as I was not in
attendance. The overall turnout was good, with many of our members in the
audience. Some even had dinner with Linford beforehand and mingled with him
afterward to make him feel welcome and to take advantage of the opportunity to
talk with him on a personal level.

Linford also came to our meeting the next evening to provide some afterthought
to his speech and participate in our group's discussions. It was great to have
a speaker here that is also a student, like most of us. It makes it easier for
the audience members to relate to a speaker when the speaker shares a common
background with them.

For more information on Dan Linford, you can go to his website to find out
more! 

Posted by Christi Sevits at 12:23 AM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Sunday, September 29, 2013

Hungry to Help: Spaghetti Dinner Fundraiser Attracts Many

by Christi Sevits

On the 19th, our group held a spaghetti dinner at College Park Baptist Church
to raise money for both our group and one of our favorite regular organizations
to volunteer for, the Out of the Garden Project. The dinner was a huge success.
We raised $215, around $80 of which went to us, $115 to Out of the Garden, and
$20 to the church sexton for allowing us to use the church's kitchen.

Out of the Garden works hard every day to deliver food to children who are on
free or reduced lunches so that they can eat on the weekends, when food
security is less guaranteed for them. We wanted to give back to Out of the
Garden as thanks for all of the work they do. Many of our group members
volunteer for them at their warehouse on a bi-weekly basis for two hours at a
time to support the cause.

Preparation began at 1 P.M. We gathered and sorted all the ingredients, chopped
vegetables, prepared salads, ensured we had change at the ready, and made signs
directing people to the dinner - all before we started cooking! Every volunteer
played an important role in making the dinner happen. There wasn't a person
there who lacked enthusiasm. I contributed by chopping onions and tomatoes, and
while the former was a teary process, I always enjoy an opportunity to help out
low-income families like my own. I'd gladly do it again tomorrow.

Thank you to the many volunteers who helped make the success of this dinner
possible. We not only have some extra money to use toward future group
projects, but confidence that we were able to help Out of the Garden continue
working toward its charitable goals. Way to go, everyone!

[aasSpagdinner]

Posted by Christi Sevits at 12:36 AM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Saturday, September 21, 2013

Success at the Carolinas Secular Student Summit

[cs3photo]

by Christi Sevits

This past weekend, four of our five officers and a new member attended the 3rd
Carolinas Secular Student Summit, a conference where secular students from
across the Carolinas come out to meet each other, exchange ideas, and learn new
ways to strengthen and increase the activity of their campus' group.

In all, there were fifty registered attendees, some of which ended up not
making it. Schools that were represented (other than UNCG, of course) were UNC
Chapel Hill, UNC Pembroke, College of Charleston, Apex High School, and the
conference's host school, NC State.

There were many excellent speakers in attendance that really galvanized us. Dr.
Darrel Ray, author of Sex and God as well as The God Virus, led a workshop on
leadership as well as a special session that was easily the most popular
segment of the conference, called Sex and Secularism. Local freethinker Todd
Stiefel also led a presentation on leadership. Secular Student Alliance's
Regional Coordinator for the Southeast region Gordon Maples provided tips on
how Secular Student Alliance (SSA) can help your group with basically anything
- event planning, requesting funds, booking speakers, and how to get a group
started. Harry Shaughnessy of the Triangle Freethought Society, which is
located in Raleigh,  provided useful tips on how to successfully fundraise. SSA
Volunteer Network Coordinator for the Southeast Kelley Freeman offered advice
on good social media practices.

Students were also included in the speaker line-up. President of the NC State
SSA chapter Nick Freeman, Vice President Jackie Fitzgerald, and Max Nielsen,
the principal plaintiff of the Nielsen v. Lex/Rich School District 5 lawsuit
that is challenging the constitutionality of graduation prayer, offered their
own insights into what makes a successful secular student group.

The responses from the attendees in our group were overwhelmingly positive. "I 
would say that the conference was a fantastic way to spend my weekend. Not only
did I get to reconnect with people I have met before, I also got to meet new
and amazing people. It was wonderful to hear and discuss about all sorts of
topics regarding to secularism and how to grow as an individual and as a group,
and as a community. It was a great weekend and I cannot wait for the next one,"
group secretary Ryan Campbell recalls. 

President Julia Alexander agrees, exclaiming, "It was just a fantastic,
wonderful experience meeting and connecting with so many new people, both in
collegiate groups and off-campus groups. I came away not only overflowing with
ideas, but an inspiration, motivation, and can-do attitude to get them done,
where before I felt a little overwhelmed with getting things done. I will
probably want to continue coming to these even after I graduate."

The huge success of the summit this year left us anticipating an even greater
time at the next one.  Those of us who went will never forget the experience
and look forward to encouraging more members to go next year -  it'll be more
than worth it!
Posted by Christi Sevits at 12:41 PM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
[logo]
●
Loading...
●
[ss1]
●
[fb]
●

  • YouTube Channel
  • Events Calendar
  • Constitution

●
NBGA
●

Blog Archive

  • ▼  2013 (8)
      □ ▼  October (2)
          ☆ Light the Night Walk By Ryan Campbell The Leuke...
          ☆ Speaker Dan Linford Discusses: Are Science and Rel...
      □ ►  September (2)
      □ ►  August (1)
      □ ►  March (1)
      □ ►  February (2)

  • ►  2012 (14)
      □ ►  November (1)
      □ ►  May (1)
      □ ►  April (1)
      □ ►  March (2)
      □ ►  February (2)
      □ ►  January (7)

  • ►  2011 (18)
      □ ►  December (2)
      □ ►  November (4)
      □ ►  October (3)
      □ ►  September (3)
      □ ►  August (1)
      □ ►  July (1)
      □ ►  May (1)
      □ ►  April (1)
      □ ►  March (1)
      □ ►  January (1)

  • ►  2010 (4)
      □ ►  September (1)
      □ ►  April (2)
      □ ►  March (1)

●

  • advocacy
  • amendment one
  • debates
  • education
  • lectures
  • service
  • videos

●

Subscribe To

[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
●
[affiliate]
●
[triadcor]
●
 
Awesome Inc. template. Powered by Blogger.
●
