skip to main | skip to sidebar
Ohio University Skeptic Society

Wednesday, September 8, 2010

New School Year

Hey Skeptics.

My name is John Kerr and I've taken over presidential duties from David as both
he and Adam graduated this last Spring Quarter.

Meetings this quarter (Fall 2010) will be held in Baker 235 on Wednesdays from
7-8pm.

I hope to see some new and familiar faces next week.
Posted by John Kerr at 5:31 PM 0 comments ● ●

Monday, August 9, 2010

New Skeptic Society

Hey All,

So, as many of you know, I have graduated and started my MA at Bowling Green. A
couple of students at BG and myself have started a BGSS and we really want to
work with you guys in the future. I think we should all meet up somewhere like
columbus to do something awesome. Here is our blog link:

http://bgskeptics.org/blog/




I also would like to say good luck and congratualtions to the OUSS's new
president, John Kerr.

Cheers,
Sam
Posted by Sam Greene at 11:22 AM 4 comments ● ●

Wednesday, September 9, 2009

Where are they now? Stan Romanek and Jeff Peckman

In February 2009 I gave a presentation and led a discussion about Stan Romanek
and Jeff Peckman. Both men affiliated with aliens and UFOs. Stan is an abductee
and Jeff is a politician. They have been on Larry King, David Letterman and a
bunch of local news stations claiming evidence and proof of aliens. They teased
us with a video capturing an alien peeking into Stan's house but at the time it
had not been relased. It has been around 7 months and I thought it was time for
an update!

From the ABC News

From August 18th 2009, well over a year since his 'spark' of fame from May
2008. Finally, the anti-climatic alien peek-a-boo video is linked in the story
for all to see. Which by the way doesn't look that much different from what low
budget skeptics have done on YouTube (Dispite the title, it's the skeptics
version and hell here it is in context LOL ghetto recording). Let's not forget
his book is out now with some talk of a second one coming (Best seller?).

My favorite part about the new article on Stan is the little bit about the
camera. Apparently his camera went missing and aliens took it to take random
MySpace (pun intended) pictures. To give him some credit the MySpace alien
picture does seem to correlate with the figure in the video. Or they could be
of one model of an alien. Who knows? Though it is an interesting update on our
good friend Stan who genuinely believes he is being contacted by aliens for the
past years.

Which brings me to Jeff Peckman. He teamed up with Stan during the news blitz
to talk E.T.s and politics. He wants to have a Extraterrestrial Affairs
Committee of sorts in place to plan and organize for any potential alien
contact/invasion/shopping. Well good news ladies and gents and greys! Jeff
almost has enough votes to put the issue on the ballot! Yes we can! For the
more curious, here is the wensite for the committee: ExoPolitics!

And there we have it folks. Until next, keep your eyes to the skies and believe
them lies!
Posted by Eric G. at 6:17 PM 2 comments ● ●

Wednesday, September 2, 2009

CHUPACABRA!!!!!

Well, I stumbled upon this video today from Yahoo! to CNN.com.

Latest Footage
(Here's Hoping the link works)

Much to my surprise (not really) the creature shown here looks quite a bit like
some previous footage of this so called "Chupacabra":

From August 2008

From September 2007

What's also is interesting is that these creatures are all found in the Texas
area. It seems the past few years these creatures have been showing up, what
ever they are. What's sad is that the taxidermist is keeping it after he stuffs
it and is sending "samples" to some universities for identification.

I say send the whole damned thing to the proper experts for a thorough
diagnosis.

Is it a fair assumption to label these things as the "mythical chupacabra" or
is it just plain old scapegoating; this odd thing could be it therefor it must
be it mentality? Should the mystery then be labeled "case closed"?

Or should the chupacabra mythology continue on, skipping these creatures, and
still remain elusive? Isn't that the fun part of cryptozoology? The mystical
creature is always one step away from capture and thus the chase continues,
always remaining a challenge to find?

Of course, pseudoscience and mythological questions aside, what about the real
questions in the real world? What exactly are these things? How did they become
this way, if they are descendants of wolves/dogs? Is this population big?
Growing? Perhaps a bottleneck population with bad genes? Perhaps a birth of a
new species?

It seems like the recent popularity of finding these creatures is increasing
and its only a matter of time til we can properly observe and learn from them.
Posted by Eric G. at 8:39 PM 1 comments ● ●

Monday, July 27, 2009

The trouble with the new atheism

A great UK documentary on the modern atheist movement, and what the presenter
has personal difficulties with.

embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/i20vLIgBt4M&color1=0xb1b1b1&color2=0xcfcfcf&hl=
en&feature=player_embedded&fs=1)

I've been writing about this in a couple of blogs for a while now, and have
commented on seeing something admirable (the legitimate criticism of the
failings of religion) turn into a full-blown cultural movement. I must commend
the many organizations that have started up after the publication of The God
Delusion and the increasing atheist literature coming out that takes similar
tones as Dawkins in trying to drive a stake through the heart of what is seen
to be irrational superstitious belief. Throughout the past couple of years the
blogosphere has also grown extensively with quite a few atheist/humanist blogs
taking the post popular positions in the internet (Pharyngula, Friendly
Atheist, Skepchick, etc.).

My personal problem with the new atheist movement is the cult-like admiration
for many of these 'intellectuals' by those equally pissed off at religion. By
definition, atheism cannot be a religion, yet it does not stop it from
possessing religious-like traits that are slowly being picked up by its
followers.
I've seen many self-professed intellectuals and skeptics take as almost a
priori truth anything that many of these public atheists say, such as 'religion
is the root of most wars', 'religious violence is the main threat to
civilization today', 'nothing is out of bounds for anyone who believes that god
is on their side', etc.

I find many of these assertions to be very problematic, and hopefully I can
address them in future blogs, but it is a pity that far too many people do not
seem to apply, or even want to apply their oft-talked about skepticism towards
the claims made by their fellow atheists.

Atheism today seems to adopt almost uncritically certain views that are dubious
at best, and not at all unanimously accepted by contemporary scholarship:

1) A war/conflict model between religion and science.
Science in this view, is the sole begetter of truth, and religion actively has
and continues to suppress the legitimate search for truth.

This to me seems to be a very selective way of looking at history, of simply
accepting via word of mouth certain major historical events in which religion
was seen as opposing science, and thus proving that religion has always opposed
science and critical thinking. As with everything though, the reality of it is
far more interesting and complex than many would like to admit. I want to
address this in some later blog, but some good books have been written on this
topic: Science and Religion: A historical introduction

2) A view of religion as the biggest cause of wars and conflict throughout
history.
Yet again, this view is a very immature and caricaturized version of reality.
It is a simple view that is easy to accept because it paints the world in black
and white terms, terms which we're all very much used to and feel very
comfortable with; which is interestingly enough a strong criticism that
atheists press against religion. Again, this is yet another interesting topic
that has been addressed by contemporary scholarship, from history and
sociology, that has been found wanting: The Gods of War: Is Religion the
Primary Cause of Violent Conflict?, and Sins of Omission: What 'Religion and
Violence' arguments Ignore

3) Adherence to outdated Freudian psychology in which belief in God is seen to
be nothing more than a psychological need to feel security, purpose, power, and
comfort in this life. There have been explanations that aim to show that human
beings are naturally disposed towards religious belief and ritual because of
certain innate or native “mental tools.” Some argue that we have these mental
tools because they, or the religion that they spawn, is and/or was adaptive for
our ancestors, and were thus passed down to us.
The basic argument, as summarized by William Lane Craig is thus:

(1) The development of the human mind through natural history has provided
those minds with a number of special properties.
(2) When considering the natural and social world, these properties encourage
humans to believe in gods.
(3) Therefore, the development of human minds has produced belief in gods
(i.e., God
(4) Therefore, belief in gods is false. is an “accident” of evolution.)

However, this argument commits the genetic fallacy. This type of reasoning aims
to argue for the truth or falsity of a belief simply from considerations of the
origin of belief. But, of course, perfectly true beliefs can emerge even from
crazy sources. To see that this reasoning is faulty, imagine you telling
someone that you believe democracy is the best system of government. The person
you're talking to however, replies that the only reason you believe that is
because you were born in a democratic country, and thus, democracy is not the
best system of government. Of course this line of reasoning is invalid, and so
too is the type of reasoning used against the existence of God based on how it
is that you arrived at your beliefs.

Also as a supplement to Freud, religious belief is also seen to be a virus of
the mind, a contagious meme that spreads from person to person. Of course,
Atheism too can be regarded as a meme, science as well, philosophy, and just
about every world view. Memetic theory is not regarded to be the best
explanation for why certain beliefs spread through cultures. It is dubious at
best, and pseudo-science at its worst. Regardless of the fact that the argument
is completely tautological, and also a genetic fallacy, it seems to ignore the
fact that atheism too has served a sociological role throughout history that
can be seen to be psychological in nature as well.For more, check out: The
Twilight of Atheism, Three Challenges for the Survival of Memetics

4) A failure to recognize that Theism, even if false, may be rationally
justified. This is something that completely irritates me and drives me away
from most atheists on myspace, the sheer hypocrisy of accusing religious
believers of being arrogant because they dare to profess to either knowing, or
believing they may have found the 'truth'. I believe it was C.S. Lewis who
wrote that if theists are to be called intolerant for believing that other
theistic faiths are wrong, then it is the atheist who is the most intolerant of
all for believing all faiths are wrong.

There is a difference between believing that someone posesses a false belief
(and we all possess false beliefs of one kind or another), and believing that
said person is wholely irrational for believing in something false. This is
where the field of epistemology sheds some light. You may hold a false belief,
but it does not follow that you are therefore irrational because of holding a
false belief. This is a distinction that many philosophers have made, and
something I think more atheists should take notice of. Philosopher William
Rowe, an atheist, wrote about this in his Friendly Atheism.

5) A view of science as the sole begetter of Truth. As Peter Atkins loves to
repeat "There is nothing that Science can't explain." Scientism as its called,
is an offshoot of a now dead movement within philosophy called empiricism. A
short summarization of this can be found in David Hume’s principle of empirical
verifiability: “If we take in our hand any volume of divinity or school
metaphysics, for instance- let us ask, does it contain any abstract reasoning
concerning quality or number? No. Does it contain any experimental reasoning
concerning matters of fact or experience? No. Commit it to then to the flames,
for it can contain nothing but sophistry and illusion.” Nothing not verifiable
by direct empirical means or that is analytically true by definition must be
discarded as nonsense. Yet this principle itself is self-defeating. We can use
the same criteria to judge its falsehood: Does Hume’s criteria apply to his own
doctrine? Is the principle of verifiability true by definition? No. Is there
any way to confirm it empirically? No, so then we should toss his principle to
the flames. A dogmatic insistence on empiricism is a flaw in much atheist
thinking “There is no scientific evidence…thus it must be false” is faulty
reasoning.

Science is a great tool, but by no means is it the sole begetter of truth.
There are indeed several things that cannot be explained or discovered by
science which we all hold to and are perfectly rational to believe in
regardless:

A)Logic and mathematics: Science presupposes logic and mathematics, otherwise
it could not function. Yet logical and mathematical proofs aren’t the kinds of
‘things’ that you discover through the scientific method, they are arrived at
through other means by philosophers. The law of non-contradiction is not a law
that could ever be discovered through science, as it cannot be judged as true
by simple induction, which is what science relies on. In short, math and logic
are presupposed by science. Trying to prove them by science would be arguing in
circles.

B) Metaphysical truths such as ‘there are other minds other than my own’ , that
the external world is real, or that the past was not created 5 minutes ago with
the appearance of age. Science cannot prove or disprove these things as science
can only examine the physical data available, which is the very thing that is
being called into question.

C) Ethical beliefs about statements of value: Science cannot comment or make
any judgments as to why the actions of Nazi medical doctors were any more
immoral than the actions of American doctors. Ethical judgments are normative,
and as such, are beyond the reach of science, which is confined to descriptive
role. Atheists for the most part fail to understand the challenge that is
presented to them by theists when it comes to morality. They severely
misunderstand the challenge to explain where morality comes from by thinking
the Theist means that without belief in God, an atheist would not be able to
act morally or be able to recognize moral facts. Yet the challenge isn't this,
the challenge is where the atheist grounds his moral theory if it isn't on a
transcendent creator. This is a very important and valid challenge that more of
them would do well to address.

D)Aesthetic judgments: Just like ethics, science cannot analyze what is
beautiful or not. These are again value judgments that cannot be arrived at
through science. Science can measure what it is that people typically find as
beautiful, or what it is that they say they find beautiful, but science cannot
in and of itself describe what is beautiful.

E) Science itself: Science cannot be justified by the scientific method. The
method itself is not arrived at through science, to do so would be again,
arguing in circles.
So, contrary to popular scientific notions, there are indeed other ways of
knowing beyond the reach of science. One would be well advised to stay away
from the outdated empiricism of scientists like Dawkins and Atkins.
One good work exploring this is The limits of science.

To end, I want to just say I'm in the same boat as the rest of you. I don't
know if God exists or not, but I want to know. I believe the proposition "God
Exists" is either true or false, and its truth or falsity is of great
importance, as it would have consequences for Ethics, Cosmology, Aesthetics,
and just about every realm of life we encounter. I want to also know if it is
even possible to know that a God exists. And even if it is impossible to have
knowledge that said God exists (which is my position as an agnostic), I want to
know whether or not it is then probable that said God exists. And I also would
like to know whether or not it is rationally justifiable to believe said God
exists. These questions matter to me. Questions of value, meaning, ethics,
justice, liberty, and morality matter to me above all else, which is why I've
been so drawn to the field of Philosophy.

I want to know what is true, and I wish more people did as well, not just pay
lip service to it, but actually love truth, because without it, human life
itself collapses. Without truth, there can be no trust, without trust, there
can be no relationships, without relationships, we are but empty solitary
shells in a constant 'war of all against all'. Those who pride themselves as
the sole bearers of 'reason', 'rationality' and 'truth' should value these
things as much as they claim to.

However, I'm beginning to be extremely cautious and distrustful of the new
atheist movement. They've become just as Fanatical as the religious fanatics
they so despise. A movement that is supposed to be a knife that carves out the
tragedies brought about by fundamentalist thinking is slowly acquiring those
very characteristics they so despise. Look at the top blogs on myspace and tell
me that people like 'God Is Imaginary', 'The Gadfly' and the rest of the more
rational than thou gang resembles anything like the true lovers of truth and
wisdom we've come to learn about like Socrates and Aristotle. I see more and
more people jumping on the bandwagon every day, and I frankly want nothing to
do with it. I have a feeling that if I were ever to change my mind and accept
Theism, I would be lumped in together with Fred Phelps and the rest of the
'superstitious religious fanatics', and as Dawkin's documentary calls them, an
"Enemy of Reason".

I'm an unbeliever. I'm unconvinced. But I want to know the truth. Let's try to
follow it wherever it leads. Lets not just pay lip service to it. Anthony
Flew's conversion is just one example of atheist intolerance. One of the
leading atheists in the world became a Deist, and of course said conversion
must be due to his being senile. Let us respect that search for truth.

It was very telling how very few unbelievers came out to take on my arguments
in my 'Is religion a cause for good or evil in the world?' blog. I would think
that something that tries to undercut the very same tired old argument atheists
make on their blogs every single day would get more attention, but of course it
barely got a peep, save for a few individuals who were willing to read it and
try to ask if it had any merit.

As for me, I'm staying away from the atheist bandwagon. That's a sinking ship
destined to blow up. A true freethinker doesn't need a scarlet letter A on
their profile to let everyone knows where he/she stands. Anti-religious
propaganda is everywhere, all I ask is that we learn to filter through it and
be consistent in our skepticism.


*Edit*

As evidence of the type of fundamentalist atheist attitude that I'm talking
about, check out my myspace post of this blog here and see the type of
vilification I received from the self-proclaimed 'brights'. Yet more evidence
to show that these people feel they're immune to criticism.
Posted by Andres Ruiz at 3:34 PM 0 comments ● ●
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)

Welcome to the OUSS Blog

Greetings Everyone,

Welcome to the OUSS's blog! Please make as many posts as you like and be sure
to check in daily as we will be updating as regularly as possible. We look
forward to interacting with you all!

We have weekly meetings/discussions open to the public:

Tuesdays
6-7 PM
Bentley, Room 210

Cheers,

The OUSS Crew

●

What is the OU Skeptic Society?

We are an organization comprised of members of the communities in the Athens,
OH area as well as the Ohio University student body.

We are dedicated to promoting positive, scientific skepticism in all areas of
life. Our goals are:

1.) To Inform the students and surrounding populous of the importance of
skeptical thought in today’s world

2.) Promote higher understanding of science

3.) Hold informative meetings which pertain to local and national news as well
as issues that our members find interesting.

4.) Provide a vessel for skeptical discourse.

5.) Challenge quackery, pseudoscience con-artists and anything of the sort in
Athens or the surrounding area.

●

Subscribe To Blog & Comments

[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
●

This Day in History

●

The Skeptic Community

  • Central Ohioans for Rational Inquiry (based out of Columbus, OH)
  • Students for Freethought of Ohio State University
  • Skepchick
  • The Skeptic's Guide to the Universe Podcast

●

Past Articles

  • ▼  2010 (2)
      □ ▼  September (1)
          ☆ New School Year
      □ ►  August (1)

  • ►  2009 (33)
      □ ►  September (2)
      □ ►  July (4)
      □ ►  May (2)
      □ ►  April (3)
      □ ►  March (5)
      □ ►  February (7)
      □ ►  January (10)

  • ►  2008 (14)
      □ ►  December (2)
      □ ►  September (3)
      □ ►  August (9)

●

About OUSS

  • Sam Greene
  • John Kerr
  • David
  • Adam Lane
  • Eric G.

●
 
