The Secular Student Alliance of ECU

Friday, February 10, 2012

T-shirt time!

Please click here to sign up for your shirt!

We need to order at least 20 shirts to make them $15 a piece. If you do not
want to sign up online, contact me, and I will sign you up on the paper sign up
sheet. So far we have about 9 people signed up. Pretty good for 2 days. I'm
also going to get some fliers up around campus. It would be awesome if we could
hit more than 20 by February 29th. Share them on your facebook. I would be
willing to ship them if needed (for friends who live far away).

In other news. . . .Darwin Day! We are having a mock anti-evolution protest
with science about faux science, the FSM, and Russell's teapot. I will be
contacting everyone to find volunteers for Monday. If I do not have your
contact information, but you would like to participate, please e-mail me! We
will also have a table set up with information about our protest and group.
Pictures will be taken! It's probably going to be cold, so dress warm. We will
be meeting in front of the chapel at 11-12 and then again from 2-3. There will
be birthday cake.

Thanks guys! Let's kick the semester off with a ruckus.
Posted by Sarah Erwin at 7:53 AM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Monday, January 30, 2012

Muslim-Christian Debate

Here are some photos from the recent debate, thank you Sundae for taking these!
See you all at the next debate!



[debate2]

Sarah Erwin (Secular Student Alliance)

[debate1]

Stephen McClesky (Baptist Student Union) & Santosh Bhattarai (Muslim Student
Association)



   
Posted by Laura Asaro at 1:45 PM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Thursday, January 26, 2012

Muslim-Christian Debate

Hey guys, remember tonight is the Muslim-Christian debate. It starts at 6:15 in
the ESTEP center. Our very own Sarah Erwin is involved as the moderator I
believe.

February 16th at 7:00 is the other debate that we are featured in, it's coming
up so mark your calendars.

I'll be at both of these events taking pictures! And I'll post them all
shortly.
Posted by Laura Asaro at 1:23 PM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Blake, christian, debate, Erwin, ESTEP, february, january, muslim,
pictures, Sarah, Scott
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)

About the Secular Student Alliance of ECU

The mission of the Secular Student Alliance is to organize, unite, educate, and
serve students and student communities that promote the ideals of scientific
and critical inquiry, democracy, secularism, and human-based ethics. We
envision a future in which nontheistic students are respected voices in public
discourse and vital partners in the secular movement's charge against
irrationality and dogma.
●

Which shirt would you like to order?

●

Get Updates by Email

[                    ]                                                 [Submit]

●

Quick Links

  • National Secular Student Alliance
  • Oklahoma Atheists
  • Facebook Page
  • Constitution
  • Contact Us

●

Archive

  • February (1)
  • January (3)
  • November (1)
  • October (1)
  • September (5)
  • August (3)
  • May (5)
  • April (2)

●
 
 
Simple template. Template images by sololos. Powered by Blogger.
●
