Freethinkers of Portland State University

The atheist, agnostic, skeptic, humanist, etc. and science advocacy student
group

Menu

Skip to content

  • Home
  • About
  • Events
  • Links
  • The Rationalist

[tree-logo-revised760x190]
May 19, 2013 by Freethinkers of PSU

Evolution Debate!!

May 30th, 7-9pm, Smith 298/296

One hour of debate followed by one hour of Q&A.

 

EvolutionPoster

Share this:

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Email
  • Tumblr
  • Reddit
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
Posted in Events | Tagged debate, Events, Evolution | Leave a comment
April 19, 2013 by Freethinkers of PSU

Ask an Atheist Day

Ask an Atheist Day was a success.

There were perhaps four or five somewhat heated (or somewhat respectful)
debates with only a few more (often humorously intended) questions. Most of the
activity at the table was atheists letting us know how cool we are, grabbing a
couple of our custom name tags, and putting down emails to get in touch.

The amount of support was not unexpected but rather pleasant. Steven was a tad
disappointed with the number of brave theists who actually asked questions- he
thought there’d be more.

Success!

20130418-214100.jpg

Share this:

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Email
  • Tumblr
  • Reddit
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
Posted in Events | Tagged Ask an atheist day, Events, outreach, tabling | Leave
a comment
April 13, 2013 by Freethinkers of PSU

In Remembrance of Christopher Hitchens

Christopher Hitchens

Born on April 13, 1949, in Portsmouth, England, Christopher Hitchens wrote for
a variety of English magazines before moving to the United States in 1981.
Hitchens established himself as one of the leading intellectual writers of the
late 20th and early 21st centuries, willing to offend his readership with his
controversial positions on matters such as religion, art, politics, war and
literature. He died in Houston, Texas, on December 15, 2011.

Christopher Hitchens was born on April 13, 1949, in Portsmouth, England. His
father, Eric Hitchens, was a commander in the British Royal Navy, which
required the family to travel frequently. (Hitchens’s brother was born in Malta
in 1951.) While his father argued that the family couldn’t afford it, his
mother, Yvonne, insisted on sending young Hitchens to private school, saying,
“If there is going to be an upper class in this country, then Christopher is
going to be in it.” And so, at age 8, Hitchens was sent off, ending up later on
at the Leys School in Cambridge.

In 1967, he began attending Balliol College in Oxford, where he joined a sect
of Trotskyites called the “International Socialists.” Although he was a staunch
member of the political left, Hitchens made connections across the political
spectrum.

The 1970s: London

In 1970, Hitchens graduated from Balliol with a bachelor’s degree in
philosophy, politics and economics and moved to London, where he wrote for the
Times Higher Education Supplement. By 1973, Hitchens moved on to the left-wing
weekly New Statesman, where he became acquainted with writer Martin Amis.

Tragedy struck that same year, when Hitchens’s mother committed suicide in a
pact with her lover in an Athens, Greece hotel room. She left a note behind,
addressed to Hitchens, essentially saying that one day he’d understand. When
Amis wrote Hitchens a sympathetic note later on about the incident, it sparked
a deep, lifelong friendship between the two writers. Hitchens wrote for the
Evening Standard and the Daily Express, before becoming the New Statesman’s
foreign editor in 1979. He held the position until he moved to New York City in
1981.

The 1980s: New York and Washington

A year after moving to New York, Hitchens relocated to Washington, D.C., where
he wrote a column called “Minority Report” for The Nation. During this period,
he also wrote the books Cyprus (1984) and The Elgin Marbles: Should They Be
Returned to Greece? (1987). Also in 1987, his father died of esophageal cancer,
the same cancer that would kill Christopher Hitchens 24 years later.

In 1989, Hitchens broke with the left after death threats were made against his
friend Salman Rushdie with the publication of The Satanic Verses. Hitchens
defended Rushdie, citing his right to freedom of expression, but he was
surprised that others from the left failed to do so and openly denounced them.
This event seemed to mark the point when Hitchens would be perceived not merely
as a leftist but also as someone who would lambast either side for perceived
transgressions.

A year later, Hitchens released The Monarchy: A Critique of Britain’s Favorite
Fetish, in which he condemned the royal family and the media’s treatment of
them, and Blood, Class, and Nostalgia: Anglo-American Ironies, in which he
examined the lopsided cultural exchange between the United States and Great
Britain. In 1992, Hitchens began writing for Vanity Fair.

The 1990s were generally a time of great productivity and greater controversy
for Hitchens,
with his output coming in the forms of books, essays and television
appearances. As he did with the royal family, he often attacked what he
perceived to be public figures raised to the level of gods, or at least myth,
and began appearing on such talk shows as Frontiers and Charlie Rose,
tenaciously engaging opponents in political debate.

Always finding new idols to topple, in The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa
in Theory and Practice (1995), Hitchens assailed the previously untouchable
reputation of Mother Teresa and claimed that she supported dictators, including
Haiti’s Jean-Claude “Baby Doc” Duvalier. And once again crossing party lines to
critique a beloved figure from the left, Hitchens parsed the various misdoings
of U.S. President Bill Clinton in No One Left to Lie To: The Triangulations of
William Jefferson Clinton (1999).

The 2000s: Godlessness, 9/11 and George W. Bush

The 2000s saw a change in Hitchens’s subject matter, if not his tone. In 2002,
he published Why Orwell Matters, followed by Thomas Jefferson: Author of
America in 2005 and Thomas Paine’s Rights of Man: A Biography in 2006—all more
traditionally academic than most of his previous books. He also continued to
rile the political left when he persistently argued in favor of an invasion of
Iraq, the deposing of Saddam Hussein after the September 11, 2001 attacks, and
George W. Bush’s post-9/11 policies. In this vein, he released a series of
essays entitled A Long Short War: The Postponed Liberation of Iraq, which laid
out his reasoning behind supporting military action.

In 2007, Hitchens came out with God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons
Everything, where he criticized virtually every religion on earth and began
occupying a prominent place in the atheist movement, although he dubbed himself
an “antitheist.”

Later Works and Death

Hitchens’s memoir, Hitch-22, was published in 2010, and Hitchens announced
during his book tour that he had been diagnosed with esophageal cancer. He
continued to make public appearances while undergoing treatment, frequently
discussing his condition in the context of his religious disbelief and shunning
the idea of a possible deathbed change-of-heart. The Quotable Hitchens: From
Alcohol to Zionism, a collection of his one-liners, and Arguably: Essays, a
collection of cultural and political commentary, were released in 2011.

On December 15, 2011, in Houston, Texas, Hitchens succumbed to his cancer,
leaving the literary world a rich legacy of ideas about civilization and
humanity’s place in the world.

© 2013 A+E Networks. All rights reserved.
http://www.biography.com/people/christopher-hitchens–20845987?page=1

Share this:

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Email
  • Tumblr
  • Reddit
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
Posted in Blog | Tagged Christopher Hitchens, Hitch, rememberance | Leave a
comment
April 12, 2013 by Freethinkers of PSU

April 11

Today’s meeting was a continuation of yesterday’s presentation and
discussion. Steven finished his overview of the themes for the spring term:
Battling Pseudoscience, Pseudoskepticism, and Conspiracy.

Pseudoscience:
An idea or belief system that tries to use scientific language and/or emulate
scientific processes but fails to abide by the rigorous methodology and
standards of evidence that characterize true science.
Interesting topic we discussed:
The ratio of things one wants to hear to things one does not want to hear in
pseudoscience vs legit science.

Pseudoskepticism:
What is it? It is used to refer to those who declare themselves merely
“skeptical” of a concept, but in reality would not be convinced by any evidence
that might be presented.
Really good article to check out

 

Conspiracy:
What makes something a conspiracy?

We discussed these topics and methods or techniques to fight these oppressive
thinking methodologies.

Yesterday focused on the principles of critical thought. Critical thinking is
NOT just thinking about something hard or for a long time. It’s simply not.

However, it is the list after this paragraph. Each item on this list is not a
difficult concept or task to grasp and the average 5 year old is capable of
executing most of them. The trick is application.

A critical thinker:
1. Is open-minded and mindful of alternatives
2. Desires to be, and is, well-informed
3. Judges well the credibility of sources
4. Identifies reasons, assumptions, and conclusions
5. Asks appropriate clarifying questions
6. Judges well the quality of an argument, including its reasons, assumptions,
evidence, and their degree of support for the conclusion
7. Can well develop and defend a reasonable position regarding a belief or an
action, doing justice to challenges
8. Formulates plausible hypotheses
9. Plans and conducts experiments well
10. Defines terms in a way appropriate for the context
11. Draws conclusions when warranted – but with caution
12. Integrates all of the above aspects of critical thinking

Share this:

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Email
  • Tumblr
  • Reddit
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
Posted in Blog | Tagged conspiracy, critical thinking, lecture, Meetings,
pseudoscience, pseudoskepticism | 1 Comment
February 27, 2013 by Freethinkers of PSU

The Rationalist with eight53- Atheist music?

The guests this week are eight53. They are a wonderful rock band. They share
some good stories and play some tunes. What a nice group of fellas.

Share this:

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Email
  • Tumblr
  • Reddit
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
Posted in Podcasts, The Rationalist | Tagged atheist, eight53, fellas, music,
stories, The Rationalist | Leave a comment
February 21, 2013 by Freethinkers of PSU

The Rationalist with Troy Carter- So, You’re an Atheist?

This week’s podcast is about a few different things but a show with Troy Carter
can’t be boring. Listen in as the topic of discussion changes faster than the
Pope’s public image.

Share this:

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Email
  • Tumblr
  • Reddit
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
Posted in Podcasts, The Rationalist | Tagged atheism, Carter, culture, podcast,
The Rationalist, Troy | Leave a comment
February 13, 2013 by Freethinkers of PSU

Bernie Dehler- Humanist vs. Robots

Bernie Dehler is a Humanist Chaplain. He is an atheist activist and probably
one of the nicest guys anyone will ever meet. The Rationalist and Bernie
discuss a wide range of topics from Humanism to Robotic overlords.

The podcast can be found here.

Share this:

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Email
  • Tumblr
  • Reddit
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
Posted in Podcasts, The Rationalist | Tagged activism, atheist, Bernie Dehler,
humanism, humanist, robots | 2 Comments

Post navigation

← Older posts

Follow Blog via Email

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new
posts by email.

[                    ]

[Subscribe]

Navigation

  • Blog
      □ Links
      □ Videos
  • Events
  • General
      □ The Group Goals
  • Science
      □ Science Links
      □ Science videos
  • The Rationalist
      □ Podcasts

Athenaeum

  • May 2013
  • April 2013
  • February 2013
  • January 2013
  • September 2012
  • May 2012
  • April 2012
  • February 2012
  • January 2012
  • November 2011
  • October 2011
  • August 2011
  • July 2011
  • May 2011
  • March 2011
  • February 2011
  • January 2011
  • November 2010
  • October 2010
  • September 2010
  • August 2010
  • May 2008
  • April 2008
  • March 2008
  • February 2008
  • January 2008

Blog at WordPress.com. | The Misty Lake Theme.
Freethinkers of Portland State University
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. The Misty Lake Theme.
Send to Email Address Your Name [                    ] Your Email Address 
[                         ]
loading [Send Email] Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:

[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
