                               [SANEFISHblog-1]
                                       ●
                                       
                     Skeptics and Atheists Network at ETSU

  Our mission is to bring about an open discourse within the community and on
campus concerning rationality and logical reasoning. To accomplish this we are
  advocating free speech and respectful discussions with people of all belief
                          systems wherever possible.

            embed(http://w1217.photobucket.com/pbwidget.swf?pbwurl=
http%3A%2F%2Fw1217.photobucket.com%2Falbums%2Fdd393%2Fetsuatheists%2Fc12ddb76.pbw)
                                        
●

Monday, February 16, 2015

ETSU Natural History Museum & Gray Fossil Site: All About Gray Fossil Site's
Red Panda

ETSU Natural History Museum & Gray Fossil Site: All About Gray Fossil Site's
Red Panda: Bristol’s Panda (Pristinailurus bristoli), found only at the Gray
Fossil Site, is an ancient North American relative of the living Red Panda (
Ailurus fulgens). Known from intact skeletons, it is the most complete fossil
ailurid from North America and most complete ailurine found anywhere else in
the world....





http://etsunaturalhistory.blogspot.com/2015/01/
all-about-gray-fossil-sites-red-panda.html
Posted by Joseph Rasch 0 comments Links to this post at 2:46 PM
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
● ●
Reactions:  

Friday, July 13, 2012

Interfaith Forum 2012



For those of you that missed our amazing Forum here is the video archive from
April 2012. Enjoy and share!
Posted by Joseph Rasch 0 comments Links to this post at 8:01 PM
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
● ●
Reactions:  

Tuesday, April 24, 2012

Final S.A.N.E. Meeting

Final S.A.N.E. Meeting




  • 
      □ Wednesday
      □ 
        7:00pm until 9:00pm
  •  Rogers-Stout Hall 102
  •  Great Darwin's finches, its been another year! Come to our last meeting
     where we will have officer elections for next year, a discussion of
     possible future projects, and head to a fine establishment afterwards to
     celebrate a good year.

Posted by Joseph Rasch 2 comments Links to this post at 2:25 AM
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
● ●
Reactions:  

Wednesday, April 18, 2012

Trans-faith forum ends interestingly - East Tennessean

   Here is a simple review from the primary campus newspaper. The review covers
one of the questions asked during the Q&A as well as the general atmosphere of
the entire forum.

     This event will definitely lead us into doing more events and having a
greater awareness around campus. We meet weekly in Rogers-Stout on the first
floor Wednesdays at 7 pm. We welcome everyone so stop by and be part of
something awesome.


Trans-faith forum ends interestingly - East Tennessean
Posted by Joseph Rasch 0 comments Links to this post at 7:30 AM
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
● ●
Reactions:  

Trans-Faith Forum Review:We Are At War in Iraq Because Iraq Is The Number One
Producer of Asparagus

     This is one of our earliest reviews and it seems quite a good
representation of what took place. Overall it was a well attended event with
lots of grounds issues covered in such a short time. 


     This event should definitely lead the charge to further events where we
can collaborate, debate, come up with new ideas to generally help our society. 


Be on the lookout for future awesome S.A.N.E. events!



Beware the Pure Spirit, Let the Flesh Instruct the Mind: We Are At War in Iraq
Because Iraq Is The Number O...: "I had the pleasure of attending a Transfaith
panel discussion last night here on ETSU’s campus. There was a great deal of
interest in this forum discussion, the room was packed. I had wondered whether
this type of discussion was going to be well received by students on campus.
This topic and the ensuing discussion were important to all of those attending.
I find it amusing that the organizers of this event were atheist and agnostics
ETSU’s own S.A.N.E. These fine students have presented in my undergraduate
class for the past couple of years. My students are always astonished when they
come to present, that is, they are not expecting such down-to-earth, laid back
fellow students. I think that in their minds, they are expecting to see goth/
emo students all dressed in black and spewing forth flames and nihilism from
their various body orifices. SANE folks are generally disarming in their
appearance and presentation style........"
Posted by Joseph Rasch 0 comments Links to this post at 7:26 AM
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
● ●
Reactions:  

Thursday, April 5, 2012

Trans-Faith Forum

[373028_420]
Trans-Faith Forum 

"Hello and welcome!! Please see more below

The SANE (Skeptics and Atheist Network of ETSU) group is hosting our first ever
Trans-Faith Forum!! Co-sponsoring the event are as follows: CRU (Campus Crusade
for Christ), RUF (Reformed University Fellowship), the Catholic Center, the
Dharma Community, MSA (Muslim Student Association) and the Philosophy Club.

The skinny: a panel of representatives from the listed groups will be answering
questions from our moderator.

The thick:

The event is a panel of students representing themselves as members of
different religious associations and speaking from the perspective of Islam,
Buddhist, different types of Christianity, as well as non-theistic. Our
moderator, the amazing Dr. Chris Dula, will be presenting our panel with
questions for them to address. The forum is NOT a debate, but an introductory
non-proselytizing Q&A where no one is set out to be shown right or wrong. The
purpose is only to show different perspectives on questions that we, as people
of any religious association, often ask ourselves or each other. Our goal is to
promote mutual respect and understanding between people, no matter their faith
or lack thereof. There will also be a time after the event for an audience Q&A
where anyone attending can directly ask our speakers questions.

This event is FREE, and open to the public, APRIL 12TH, 6 PM. At the ETSU, Culp
Center BALLROOM (top floor).

More information and details will follow:
If any group, organization, or company wishes to help advertise the event, we
can list you as a supporter and include you in our credits for the event. If
another student group wants to be involved feel free to contact me, Ben Luther
or Bryce Watson

We're still waiting on confirmation for speakers, although each of these groups
have signed on, but so far they are as follows.

CRU unsure as yet
RUF unsure as of yet
Catholic Center- Father Mike possibly
Dharma- unsure as of yet
MSA- Rana Zakaria
SANE- Benjamin Luther and Perry Winters

I'll adjust the info as it comes in.

Quote from Dula
"I'm honored to have been asked to be the Moderator for this unique and
interesting event...the major goal is promotion of completely respectful
education and communication across a wide variety of world views, from
monotheistic, to polytheistic, to atheistic. The only requirement of audience
members in an interest in the topic and a willingness to listen to all sides
peacefully. Panel members don't claim to be authorities (though some clearly
are), but rather will be representing themselves as individuals within various
groups. Standardized questions have been prepared by a working group of members
from these great organizations, and an audience Q&A will occur after the formal
session. Hope you can join us!"


Posted by Joseph Rasch 0 comments Links to this post at 7:15 AM
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
● ●
Reactions:  

Wednesday, February 29, 2012

Leap Day! S.A.N.E. Meeting 29FEB2012

S.A.N.E. Meeting




  • Location: Rogers Stout Hall 102
  •  We will be discussing the shadowbox, future events, and to celebrate the
     opening of our bank account we will have PIZZA! Come join us!

  • Come enjoy Leap Day at Rogers-Stout Hall Room 102 on the ETSU campus! Bring
    a friend.

Posted by Joseph Rasch 0 comments Links to this post at 6:00 AM
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
● ●
Reactions:  

Wednesday, February 22, 2012

S.A.N.E. Movie Night!

S.A.N.E. Movie Night! 22February2012

Like aliens? Carl Sagan? Jodie Foster? Contact. Come watch it.

Bring a friend or a few. We will be showing this awesome movie in Rogers-Stout
Hall Room 102 and we will be starting at 7pm. See you there!


Posted by Joseph Rasch 0 comments Links to this post at 7:52 AM
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
● ●
Reactions:  
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
[atheist]
●

Group Links

Our Facebook Page

Atheism PowerPoint
●

Related Links

Secular Student Alliance

American Atheists

Richard Dawkins

American Humanist Association

Secular Coalition for America

The Thinker

Center For Inquiry

r/atheism
●

Meetings

Wednesdays @ 7:00pm
Rogers-Stout Room 101
●

Council Members

President:
Ben Luther

Vice President:
Ben Luther/Joseph Rasch

Secretary:
Joseph rasch

Treasurer:
Alix Egbert

Social Media Director:
Joseph Rasch

Group Photographer:
Joseph Rasch
●

Blog Archive

  • ▼  2015 (1)
      □ ▼  February (1)
          ☆ ETSU Natural History Museum & Gray Fossil Site: Al...

  • ►  2012 (7)
      □ ►  July (1)
      □ ►  April (4)
      □ ►  February (2)

  • ►  2011 (22)
      □ ►  December (1)
      □ ►  November (1)
      □ ►  October (1)
      □ ►  September (2)
      □ ►  August (1)
      □ ►  July (2)
      □ ►  June (3)
      □ ►  May (2)
      □ ►  April (3)
      □ ►  March (2)
      □ ►  February (4)

●

Followers

●
                                An affiliate of
                                   [ssalogo]
●
Simple template. Powered by Blogger.
●
