Austin Atheists Helping the Homeless

  • Our Next Giveaway
  • About Us
  • Donate
  • Warmth Drive
  • Volunteer
  • FAQs
  • Kudos
  • Knit & Craft
  • Shirts & More
  • Contact

●

1.09.2016

What we need for January 17!

It's time for the first giveaway of 2016! 

[2015-2016]
We are continuing to collect items for the ATXAHH Warmth Drive. ECHO estimates
that about 1/3 of all people experiencing homelessness do not have shelter on a
given night. Sadly, in Travis County alone, that's well over 600 people. Do you
have any hats, scarves, gloves, thick socks, thermals, sweats, or ponchos to
help keep them warm? How about sleeping bags, blankets, or sleeping mats? We
will be happy to hand out any warm items that you may have! Please email
atxahhdonations@gmail.com to schedule a donation pick up.
If you'd like to print & post our flyers, please click here. 

The Foundation Beyond Belief's Humanists Care Challenge is going on right now!
Why support the FBB & Humanists Care? Check out their video for 5 great
reasons!
Please spread the word about the Humanists Care Challenge using the hashtag #
humanistscare.

Call for volunteers! 
Austin ECHO needs 200 more volunteers to help with the 2016 Point In Time Count
on January 23. To sign up or get more information, please visit their website.

The generous congregation at St. Andrew's Presbyterian Church opens their doors
to anyone needing shelter when the temperatures fall below freezing. They are
in search of volunteers to serve dinner & stay overnight. If you are able to
help, please contact Ed Kopas at edwardkopas@yahoo.com or 512-659-9880.

[Avengers]
The ATXAHH Gettin' Knotty group is having their monthly meetup this Thursday,
January 14. Come craft & chat with us! We meet in the cafe area of the Barnes &
Noble in the Arboretum from 7 to 10 PM. Come when you can, leave when you must!
(Disclaimer: We have not had any Avengers at a GK meetup. Yet.)

[traffic]


Red Light (we don't need any more of these items right now):
Tampons
Soap/Body wash
Hair elastics
Shampoo
Women's socks 
Women's underwear

Yellow Light (we probably have enough of these items to get through the
giveaway, but a few more wouldn't hurt):
Chapstick
Lotion
Combs/brushes
Dental products - toothbrushes, toothpaste, floss/floss picks
Conditioner
Emergency blankets
Hand warmers
Razors
Kleenex
Cotton balls & q-tips

Green Light (we really need these items!):
Pads & pantiliners
First aid kits
Nail clippers
Toilet paper
Deodorant
Notepads & pens
Hand sanitizer
Body wipes
Men's socks
Men's underwear

We could also use plastic bags! We go through a lot of them at our giveaways.

If you have any of these items, we'll be happy to pick them up! We have
volunteers from Kyle to Cedar Park and everywhere in between. Please email
atxahhdonations@gmail.com to schedule a pick up.
If you're not sure what to donate or you prefer to order online, check out our
Amazon wish list. Your donation will be sent directly to us. (Helpful hint: If
you click Sort By: Priority, the wish list will be sorted to match the traffic
light shopping guide. High Priority = Green Light, Medium Priority = Yellow
Light, and Low Priority = Red Light.)
Thanks for reading! Happy Saturday!

1.05.2016

Goodbye 2015, and Hello 2016!

2015 was one heck of a year for ATXAHH. We've had an outpouring of community
support, have had many new volunteers join us, and have received a fantastic
amount of donations to pass on to those in need. It has been a fabulous year!

As you read in our December giveaway recap, donations this month were at an
all-time high! 4,142 items - our donors rock!


TY anon donor TY anon donor TY donor AR

TY donor CC TY donor KI TY donor KW

TY donor KM TY donor LG TY donor MG
                        

TY donor ML TY donor MS TY donor MS2

TY donor PTW  TY donor RT


We had several packages come to us via Amazon with no paperwork this month. Did
you donate any of these items? If you did & you'd like to let us know that it
was you, please email atxahhdonations@gmail.com and let us know what you sent!

Thank you donor Thank you donor

Thank you donor Thank you donor Thank you donor

Thank you donor Thank you donor


We also have a few extra-special thank yous to note!

The Center for Inquiry collected donations for us at their Saturnalia
Celebration. They gathered over 460 items for us to hand out at our next
giveaway. Thanks CFI!
[TY]

We received 50 coats from County Line Homeless Ministry! They were donated to
County Line by Buffalo Exchange, and the volunteers at County Line kindly
passed some on to us. How great is that?
[TY]

The University of Texas chapter of Alpha Phi Omega held a blanket collection
for us, and they donated over a dozen blankets. Thanks, and HOOK 'EM!
[TY]

The residents of Parsons House donated 200 handmade hats. Aren't they gorgeous?
And so soft!
[TY]

We are also very excited to announce that Savers has included us in their Cycle
of Giving! What's the Cycle of Giving? Savers gets more donations than their
store can hold! So they pass on extra items - things like clothes, shoes, hats,
scarves, and books - to charitable organizations like ATXAHH. We then put them
in the hands of people than can use them. It truly is a Cycle of Giving!
[TY]

Did you hear about our extended holiday boxes & bags project? Well, when they
were all counted up, we had 55 wonderful boxes to hand out to those in need!
The ladies of the Learning Without Limits book club put together 20 bags:

TY LWOL TY LWOL TY LWOL


The amazing kids from The Inside Outside School in Pflugerville put together
and fabulously decorated 16 boxes:
[Inside]

And one of our donors, A.R. and her family put together 15 bags - we love the
drawings!

TY donor AR TY donor AR



WOW! So many amazing donations! We are so very thankful to have such incredible
community support. You, our wonderful donors, put us at a grand total of 30,789
items for 2015! We can't say thank you enough. We couldn't do what we do
without you!

The ATXAHH Warmth Drive is still going strong! We will be collecting cold
weather gear - hats, scarves, coats, sweats, thermals, & gloves - until
February. If you have any items that you'd like to donate, please email
atxahhdonations@gmail.com. We'll pick them up!
If you aren't able to donate at this time, please spread the word about our
Warmth Drive. Click here for printable flyers, and share our posts on Facebook
& Twitter. 

On to 2016! We hope you had a wonderful new year's celebration. See you on the
17th!
Older Posts Home

WHEN IS THE NEXT GIVEAWAY?

WHEN IS THE NEXT GIVEAWAY?
●

Subscribe to News

[                    ]                                                 [Submit]

●

News Archive

[News Archive      ]
●
FaceBook

FaceBook  Twitter
●
          Twitter
Shop      ●
          
Shop      Instagram
●
          Instagram
Pinterest ●

Pinterest
●

Trouble with the Amazon wishlist?

Trouble with the Amazon wishlist?
Click the frustrated person for help.
●
 
Awesome Inc. template. Powered by Blogger.
●
