Texas Secular Humanists

News, updates, and articles from the Texas Secular Humanists at the University
of Texas at Austin.

Monday, February 4, 2013

Religious Trolls

Some recent, but by no means unprecedented, activity on the University of Texas
campus has sparked discussion regarding how to respond to people that present
their fiery-brimstoney (and arguably hateful, that is another post for another
day) opinions in an aggressive manner. I want to offer a view on how to
approach this.
 
First, let’s cover some hard (and I hope obvious) limits on either end for what
constitutes a reasonable level of confrontation. You should never touch these
people, or their belongings, unless they leave you no other reasonable option.
Do not take their signs. Do not push them. Do not throw your coffee at them. If
they physically block your way, then I see no problem with the kind of physical
contact you might normally have in navigating a crowded bar, concert, or
hallway. And, of course, if they attack you, then you can defend yourself
(though I don’t think I should have to point out unlikely it is that it will
come to that). One exception might be that if they give you permission, you
could do something nice like give them a hug.


On the other end of the confrontation spectrum, you should not shy away from
saying what you think, or doing what you want around these people in a calm,
reasoned manner, if your only concern is that you might offend them. These
people obviously have no problem putting forth unpopular and largely offensive
opinions in public. Again, I hope it’s obvious, but offending people that spend
all day waving offensive signs should not be a major concern of ours.


Within these bounds, we need to decide what our goal is before we can come up
with an effective response. This is a step that I feel is often neglected. Some
people seem to be interested in “getting back at them” or just want to yell at
them as a way to blow off steam and feel better about it. Surely we can think
bigger than that. Other people think they should debate them and show how much
smarter we are than they are. And, some people just want to make them look
stupid. There are two things to notice before we choose a tactic: Everyone
already thinks they look stupid, and a debate in this context is mainly on
their terms (another topic for another time).
 
One of the best things that these people do for us is to offer a backdrop for
us to display ourselves as the very calm, reasonable, open-minded, and caring
people that we are. Other groups have offered hugs, encouragement, or
scientific literature. Another possibility is to just be there, be friendly and
calm, and label ourselves as an alternative to religious zealots. One more tact
is to focus on using reason rather than dogma. We can offer a place to sit and
discuss matters, with strictly enforced rules that everyone listen to each
other, be polite, and avoid unjustified claims. These are, of course, all
tactics we would use as a club.


If you are on your own, then how should you respond? If you do manage to engage
them in an actual discussion, then just keep your cool, listen to them, and
consider what they are saying. Obviously, you’re likely to disagree with them,
but you never know until you listen. If other people are listening to you, your
goal should be to convince the audience that your position is reasonable. If
you are on your own, then you may be wasting time, but you could use it as an
opportunity to practice for when you do have an audience, or maybe try your
luck at convincing them that their methods are unlikely to be successful (it is
unlikely that calling people whores will convince them to accept Jesus Christ
as their personal lord and savior).

If there are no discussions to be had, then you could try a miniature version
of the suggestions for a group effort. Apart from that, I am at a loss. It
might be best to just walk past, and ignore them. Perhaps someone else has an
idea. The main thing is, whatever you do, keep your cool, and focus on this as
an opportunity to show people what our worldview has to offer. We do not need
to encourage any stereotypes of militant atheists.

-Rick
Posted by Grothor at 8:57 PM 2 comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Wednesday, November 21, 2012

Humanism and Atheism

Unfortunately, I was unable to attend the most recent meeting for Texas Secular
Humanists, but I was able to see pictures from the meeting. In one of the
pictures, a member of the club was putting the finishing touches on a sign that
listed “Cookies” and “God”, each with a check box, with only the “Cookies” box
checked. It is clever and funny, and I hope that it was effective, but
something about it bothered me when I saw it. I realize now that it is the
strong emphasis on the lack of God in the humanist belief structure. I am going
to make the case for de-emphasizing the link between secular humanism and
atheism. I am not suggesting that there is no link, that it should be ignored,
or that it is unimportant. The link is undeniable. Depending on what
definitions you choose, secular humanists are necessarily a subset of atheists,
and I would not say that any reasonable pair of definitions can completely
separate the two. The atheistic aspects of secular humanism are important. The
fact that we believe in taking moral responsibility for our own condition and
that of our fellow humans is made much more meaningful by the fact that we
believe we must do this on our own, and without the help of someone or
something from outside the natural world. Still, there are important reasons
why we should shift our focus so that we are humanists first, and secular
second.
 
The first reason is mainly tactical. There is a large number of highly visible
atheists and atheist organizations in the US. Some of them come across as
assholes, some come across as insecure nerds, and some fight unpopular legal
battles. There is not necessarily anything wrong with this; I could certainly
be described as a nerd-asshole who supports legal battles to remove “In God We
Trust” from US legal tender. These people and organizations are our close
allies, and we need them. We do not need to distance ourselves from them.
However, we do need to distinguish ourselves from them. Many people are tired
of it of these issues and the way they are pushed, or they simply don't care
about them. Many people are atheists, but think that merely being an atheist is
not reason enough to form a club, pay dues to a national organization, or go to
a conference. Secular Humanism, on the other hand, is about being a good person
and also being a nonbeliever. This is something that will get the attention of
people that never cared before. We need to demonstrate that we represent a
unique segment of nonbelievers, so that those who did not care before have a
reason to care.
 
The second reason for this emphasis is ideological. We should not need to
constantly remind ourselves and others that we do not believe in God. Our
primary characteristic, and the thing that really drives us and brings us
together should not be a lack of belief; it should be a desire to work together
to understand each other and the world around us so we can make the world a
better place. The fact that we do not believe in God should only factor in when
others’ beliefs somehow factor into the picture. When we reach out to other
nonbelievers and ask them to join us, it is not because we think it’s cool to
be atheists, it is because they are likely to empathize with us and help us
form a strong community, and because they may need help navigating the
sometimes difficult social and political landscape that we all encounter as a
misunderstood minority. We do not gain anything by “practicing” atheism, if
that means anything. What we can practice and what we should try to spread
around is humanism. If we want to live in a world in which being a nonbeliever
is unremarkable, we should start acting like it.
Posted by Texas Humanists at 10:11 PM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Wednesday, September 28, 2011

Church or Jail?

Not really related to the club, but I thought this was an interesting bit of
information.

Church or jail?

Basically, sweet ol' Alabama is trying to pass a law where first time,
non-violent offenders could chose to go to church instead of serving a prison

"The Restore Our Community program, called Operation ROC, was developed for
those convicted of first-time misdemeanors, offering them the opportunity to
either attend church once a week for a year and answer questions about the
services, or go to jail and pay a fine. Right away, the program sparked
controversy."

Separation of church and state indeed.
The law is under review at the moment because it sparked such controversy.
Huh.. wonder why.
Posted by Jennifer at 8:13 PM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Monday, September 5, 2011

Meeting

Hello everyone!

We have our first meeting in our regular location tomorrow evening:

Tuesday September 6th at 7pm

RLM 6.116

RLM (Robert Lee Moore building) is on the southeast corner of Dean Keeton and
Speedway. It is tall. When you're heading for the 6th floor, keep in mind that
the 4th floor is the ground floor.

EDIT: This will be our time and location every week!
Posted by Texas Humanists at 10:19 AM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Friday, September 2, 2011

Why Humanism?

[unholy_trinity3]
(credit: Atheist Cartoons)
    A common question that I am asked when I tell people about Texas Secular
Humanists is why we include humanism in our name, rather than just secularism
or atheism. Although there are more practical reasons for this, relating to
recruiting and public relations, I would like to address the less pragmatic,
more philosophical reasons for this.
    There is a tendency, when groups of people unite around secularism,
atheism, or skepticism, to focus their efforts and discussions on pushing back
against the religious. When this is done properly, it can be beneficial for
 both parties. It is true that a large portion of the population holds false
beliefs that sometimes cause them to make poor decisions that have an adverse
affect on other people. It stands to reason that, if there is anything that we,
as the secular community, can do to combat these beliefs and their harmful
consequences without causing additional undue harm, we have some moral
responsibility to do so. The trouble with this is that it does little to
address our responsibilities, apart from keeping our worldviews and belief
systems epistemically robust, and helping others to do so themselves.
Even when it is not aggressive or unfriendly, this type of behavior places an
emphasis on what everyone else is doing wrong, or falsely believes, or
misunderstands about the secular world. It does not address what we, as the
clear thinking moral agents we claim to be, ought to do ourselves. It does not
address what other moral responsibilities we may have that are not related to
the intellectual mistakes or dogmatically held beliefs of others. The attitude
often seems to be that most other people are wrong, and need help learning the
truth so that they can stop voting for the wrong political candidates, teaching
nonsense to their kids, and wasting their time praying for a cure to cancer.
I do not mean to suggest that these activities are something that secular
organizations should not undertake, so long as they are well planned and
executed in a way that properly accounts for the others’ points of view and
reasons for believing what they believe. After all, it is unlikely that anyone
else is going to do it. However, before we can begin hold others accountable
for their beliefs and practices, we should take full responsibility and full
account of our own. It is not sufficient to have a logically consistent set of
beliefs that are in agreement with current scientific models. It is not enough
to simply note that we are not partaking in the same harmful activities and
habits of thought as the theistic masses to which we are trying to make an
appeal. We need to first attend to our own moral obligations. We need to ask
ourselves what the best use of resources is, for an organization such as ours.
We need to ask ourselves what we ought to do, now that we claim to have freed
ourselves from the shackles of bronze-age superstition.
This is why we call ourselves humanists. We stand for much more than rational
worldviews, the rejection of religious dogma, and notifying others of the flaws
in their ontological and ethical beliefs. We are members of the thoughtful,
creative, empathetic, and planet-dominating species called humans. It is time
to stop pointing our fingers at each other for being wrong, and start using our
large brains and opposable thumbs to solve the real problems facing humanity.

-Rick K

“The grand victories of the future must be won by humanity, and by humanity
alone”
-Robert Ingersoll
Posted by Grothor at 4:31 PM 1 comment: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Wednesday, August 31, 2011

Pizza in the Park

We've been telling people that there is a barbecue on Sunday. Unfortunately,
there is a burn ban in effect, so we can grill anything. Fortunately, we have
an alternative plan! We'll just have pizza instead.

Please join us at Eastwoods Park at 1pm on Sunday for pizza, sodas, and perhaps
some fun with a frisbee or a soccer ball.

What you should bring:

  • A few dollars to help pay for the pizza
  • Frisbees, soccer balls, basketballs, or whatever
  • A big friendly smile!

If you are going to attend, or might attend, please use exactly one method to
RSVP (and say whether you're a yes or a maybe):

  • Facebook event https://www.facebook.com/event.php?eid=127280120703959
  • Email to texashumanists@gmail.com
  • A comment for this post

I hope to see you on Sunday!
Posted by Texas Humanists at 9:29 PM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Party on the Plaza!

[IMG_0739]
Thanks to everyone who visited us at Party on the Plaza today. We were pleased
and a bit surprised by the enthusiasm with which we were received as a new(ish)
organization on campus. We met quite a few students, had some interesting
discussions, and even found some good opportunities for dialogue and
collaboration with different groups.

Here is a picture of (left to right) Jarett, Me, and Scott at our table.


Posted by Texas Humanists at 9:06 PM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)

Followers

●

Blog Archive

  • ▼  2013 (1)
      □ ▼  February (1)
          ☆ Religious Trolls

  • ►  2012 (1)
      □ ►  November (1)

  • ►  2011 (7)
      □ ►  September (3)
      □ ►  August (4)

●

Contributors

  • Grothor
  • Texas Humanists
  • WorldPeas
  • Jennifer

●

Disclaimer

This blog is published by Texas Secular Humanists, a registered student
organization. This blog is not an official publication of The University of
Texas at
Austin and does not represent the views of the university or its officers.
●
 
Simple template. Powered by Blogger.
●
