Freethinkers at Virginia Tech

[4taqo8]
Search [                    ] [Search]
Main menu

Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content

  • About
      □ About Free@VT
      □ Officers, Execs, and Advisors
      □ Discussion Guidelines
      □ Constitution
  • Blog
      □ Posts
      □ Video
      □ Events
  • Resources
      □ Press
      □ Giles County Ten Commandments saga
  • Facebook
  • Calendar

Freethinkers at Virginia Tech

Our Club

The best way to keep up with club activities is to join our Facebook group or
visit the Calendar. We are also on Gobbler Connect.

Freethinkers at Virginia Tech is a student organization comprised of
individuals interested in promoting and applying freethought. In addition to
social outings to interesting movies, speakers, and debates, we meet every
Tuesday to hold lively discussions on religious, scientific, and philosophical
topics. All are welcome to attend, and anyone who grounds their opinions in
critical thinking and logic is welcome to contribute!

Freethought is the application of critical thinking and logic to all areas of
human experience. For many freethinkers, this leads to the rejection of
supernatural and authoritarian beliefs. Freethinkers value rational and
scientific inquiry, individual freedom and responsibility, and the need for
tolerance and cooperation. Freethought is thought unconstrained by deference to
authority. Freethinkers include, among others, atheists, agnostics, deists,
humanists, sceptics, and rationalists.

We believe that diversity should be openly discussed and celebrated. We strive
to create an open, safe space in which people feel free to express different
ideas, opinions, and worldviews. Our aim is to promote critical thinking and
positive attitudes towards both the similarities and differences in each other.
All people are welcome to attend club meetings and events regardless of
ability, need, background, lifestyle, culture, national origin, race, religion,
sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, age, veteran status, political
affiliation, or economic circumstances.

Contact Us: freethinkers@vt.edu

Proudly powered by WordPress
