West Virginia University

  • A-Z Site Index
  • Campus Map
  • Jobs
  • Directory
  • WVU Home

Secular Student Alliance at WVU

  • Home
  • Secular Safe Zone
  • News and Articles
  • Guest Lecture Series
  • Events, Activities, and Alliances
  • Links
  • Meeting Notes
  • Musings
  • What does Secular Humanism mean?

Contact Us

WVU Free Thinking, Inquiring Secular Humanists (FISH)
Email: wvu.darwin.fish@gmail.com
Join us on Facebook: Secular Student Alliance at WVU
Follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/ssaatwvu

Secular Student Alliance at West Virginia University awarded 2013 Outstanding
Activism Award by Secular Student Alliance for hosting the first campus wide
Secular Safe Zone training in the country.
Read More: http://www.secularstudents.org/awards

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Secular Student Alliance at WVU is a student group affiliated with the Secular
Student Alliance. We strive to promote an atmosphere on campus free of
religious persecution, as well as social tolerance and understanding. We hope
to also provide a welcoming atmosphere for secular students to group together
and create a tangible impact on the community.

We are an official student chapter of the Secular Student Alliance, and the
first student chapter formed in West Virginia. For more information on the
Secular Student Alliance and how hundred of chapters are being established
throughout the United States, please visit https://www.secularstudents.org/.

We attempt to accomplish the above goals by: hosting lectures, having regular
meetings, group discussions, public awareness events, creating alliances with
other student organizations, creating alliances with student government,
volunteering, hosting scholarly debates, and much more. We are a very flexible
group and can take a variety of measures and routes to ensure we are making a
positive impact on our campus and worldwide community.

To be very clear, our purpose is NOT to promote intolerance towards any
religion, we believe every individual has the choice to lead an atheistic or
theistic life style. No person should be judged on their choices. Each member
is held to a higher standard and any actions that harbors prejudice and
intolerance against any religious group shall be dealt with to the limits of
the law.

If you are curious about secular humanism or wish to join our student
organization please, join the discussion on our Facebook group at http://
www.facebook.com/groups/287015077986142/ or email wvu.darwin.fish@gmail.com to
have your email added to our listserv. We use both means to update everyone as
some prefer not to use Facebook. We also have our Facebook privacy settings set
to restricted, so there’s no need to worry about your family members seeing
your posts within the group if that’s a concern.

[INS:NOTE: If you are a high school student looking to start a group at your
school, send us an email or a Facebook message! We can help!:INS]


Current Board:

President: Robby Ralston
Vice President: Kelley Denham
Treasurer: Kevin Mccabe
Secretary (Interim): Cecil O’Dell
Graduate Student Liaison: Caleb Davis
Advisors: James Keresztury

General Meeting Dates

Our meetings are held every week (excluding the first week, dead week, and
finals week) at 7:00pm-8:00pm on Thursdays. Unless otherwise noted, meetings
are held in the Laurel Room of the Mountainlair.

While student organizations are permitted to maintain a website on West
Virginia University's server, this website does not constitute official West
Virginia University content. This page is developed and maintained by a student
organization, and is not approved or endorsed by, affiliated with, or supported
by the University. The University does not screen or control the content on
this page and thus does not guarantee the accuracy, integrity, or quality of
it. The views expressed here are strictly those of the page authors. Questions
or comments on the contents of this page should be directed to the applicable
student organization.
(C) 2016 West Virginia University. Last modified: October 09, 2014. Site design
by University Relations, Web.
West Virginia University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action
Institution.

  • 
  • WVU Portal
  • Explore the hills of WVU with foursquare
  • WVU on YouTube
  • WVU on Twitter
  • WVU on Facebook
  • WVU on iTunes U
  • Give
  • WVU Alert
  • Mountaineer TRAK
  • MyAccess
  • WVUToday
  • Google+

