 
Faith to FaithlessFaith to Faithless

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  

[                    ]
  • Who are we
  • How can we help?
      □ I’m worried
          ☆ I’m doubting my faith
          ☆ I’ve just left my faith
          ☆ I’m living a double life
      □ I’m scared
          ☆ I’m in danger: honour violence
          ☆ I’m in danger: mental health
          ☆ Someone I know is in danger
      □ I feel strong
          ☆ I want to “come out”
          ☆ I want to volunteer
          ☆ I want to donate
  • Videos
      □ Advice
      □ Coming out
      □ On Apostasy
      □ Be on a video
  • Events & Communities
      □ Find a community
          ☆ Ex Muslim Communities
          ☆ Ex Christian Communities
          ☆ Ex Jewish Communities
          ☆ Ex Sikh Communities
          ☆ Ex Hindu Communities
          ☆ Ex Mormon Communities
          ☆ Ex Jehovah’s Witness Communities
      □ Find an event
          ☆ Upcoming Events
          ☆ Past Events
  • In the media
  • Blogs
  • Donate

 

What’s the biggest hidden minority in families?

(hint: it’s in our name)

How can we help?

  • I’m worried
      □ I’m doubting my faith
      □ I’ve just left my faith
      □ I’m living a double life
  • I’m scared
      □ I’m in danger: honour violence
      □ I’m in danger: mental health
      □ Someone I know is in danger
  • I feel strong
      □ I want to “come out”
      □ I want to volunteer
      □ I want to donate

Although irreligious people account for an estimated 17%-22% of the world’s
population (ICM/BBC), people who do not believe are treated
poorly. Discrimination and ill treatment can span multiple areas of life,
including the familial, societal, institutional and state level.

Discrimination can be further compounded for those who are minorities within
minorities (e.g. Ex Muslims, Ex Jews, Ex Mormons, Ex Jehovah’s Witnesses,
etc). 

Faith to Faithless was started in mid-2015 by Aliyah Saleem and Imtiaz Shams to
1) draw attention to the discrimination faced in particular by minority within
minorities 2) give a platform to the faithless to come out in public and speak
out against this discrimination.

To date, we have held 5 events, received >570,000 views between our videos and
a BBC documentary, in the Times, in the Spectator and the Guardian. Our events
have led to other apostates coming out publically on our events, on their
social media and to their family. 

We want this website to become a first port of call for ex-religious people
everywhere, who often feel alone and just need to know that they aren’t. We are
going to keep adding videos, doing events and helping bring people together.

Everything we do and have done is on a voluntary basis, so please support us by
giving us your time, sharing the work of our volunteers on social media, or
donating some money to keep us going.

  • Cross-Apostate Voices: UCL Videos Playlist

    Our first cross-apostate event at UCL (University College London). Sign up
    to our Facebook  page for upcoming events!

  • Islam & Apostasy ft. Aliyah Saleem in Newcastle

  • BBC Radio: Ex Muslims in Britain ft. Imtiaz Shams

  • Faith to Faithless media spotlight: BBC Documentary

    Faith to Faithless was featured on a BBC documentary on Ex Muslims, with
    Imtiaz Shams and Aliyah Saleem talking about the issues Ex Muslims face.

    If you’re looking for our next events, please follow our Facebook page or
    our twitter.

  • Ex Muslim Voices: QMUL Videos

    Our launch event at Queen Mary University of London, with the related Times
    article here (direct link to article). Sign up to our Facebook  page for
    upcoming events!
   
