Atheist Oasis – A Rational Refuge

[holbach]
Skip to content

  • Home
  • About
  • On Commenting

← Older posts

More On The Madness Of Muslims: Because When You’re An Animal All That Counts
Is Blood And Guts

Posted on January 17, 2016 by KA

These sort of atrocities deserve to be denounced, and the perpetrators deserve
to be put down like the rabid dogs they are:

    Syria says IS group killed 300 in attacks in country’s east

    BEIRUT (AP) — Syria’s government said Sunday that Islamic State militants
    slaughtered 300 people in an “appalling massacre” committed in the eastern
    city of Deir el-Zour in daylong attacks that saw the extremists make
    significant advances in the contested region.

    The state-run SANA news agency said that most of those killed in Saturday’s
    attacks were elderly people, women and children while opposition activists
    said many of the victims were Syrian soldiers and pro-government militiamen
    and their families.

    The killings are some of the worst carried out by the extremist group,
    which controls large parts of Syria and Iraq and has killed thousands of
    people in both countries.

    The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which documents all
    sides of the Syria conflict through activists on the ground, said late
    Saturday that at least 135 people were killed. It said around 80 of them
    were soldiers and pro-government militiamen and the rest civilians.

    It added that many of them were shot dead or beheaded.

    The Islamic State group controls most of Deir el-Zour province and much of
    the capital with the same name, while the government controls several
    districts in the northern part of the city and the adjacent military
    airport. Most of the casualties took place in the area of Baghaliyeh near
    the city.

    The Lebanon-based Al-Mayadeen TV, which is close to the Syrian government,
    also reported a massacre and said IS killed dozens of people, including
    women and children, and threw their bodies in the Euphrates River. It said
    the group took more than 400 civilians hostage.

    The reports could not be independently confirmed.

    The IS-affiliated Aamaq news agency had reported a large-scale
    multi-pronged attack on Deir el-Zour that began with a suicide bombing. On
    Sunday, it reported that the group expanded its control of areas west and
    northwest of Deir el-Zour, adding that around 110 Syrian government forces
    were killed and at least five others captured.

    It said the group seized control of Baghaliyeh and surrounding areas during
    the fighting.

There will be those who declare that ‘radical Islam’ must go. But the issue is,
how to separate the moderates from the extremists? On one hand we have a
religion that seems to enable psychotic assholes, on the other, it is nigh
impossible to dictate to other humans what they should think, believe, or
behave in matters ordinary or spectacular.

All religion will have to be proclaimed and proven obsolete. People who flip
out and start sputtering fanatical foam will need medication. Yet we cannot
medicate the entire species – it draws far too close to fascism for peace of
mind.

And Muslims – the extreme ones – advocate slavery, slaughter, behave no better
than any barbarians from history, show no signs of ‘enlightenment’ (none that
would fit in any 21st century civilization), declare themselves the sole
inheritors of the ‘truth’, and take whatever they want by force. No surprise
there – it’s what the Christians used to do, and still try to do, even in this
day and age.

All ‘western’ religions are bullies by nature. The proponents of such will (at
any early opportunity) force their ‘truth’ on others by sword or bullet or
torture, where applicable.

It is both saddening and maddening, that the mad dogs are at it again.

Till the next post then.

Share this:

  • Facebook
  • Email
  • Twitter
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
Posted in Bad God!, Crazy fundies, Islam, Politics, Religion, Tragedy | 1
Comment

And The World Changes, One Mind At A Time

Posted on January 10, 2016 by KA

crazyvsreligionLately my web searches have been more…gratifying. Topics that
I’ve been carrying on about for years seem to occur to others more often. No,
not trying to infer that I’ve inspired others: it’s just some of these subjects
are obviously flawed and stupid, and other people are figuring it out. The only
thing I know I can take credit for on the interwebs is the use of the word
‘decalogue’. Back in the year 2005, a search for that single word generated
zero hits. Now? Google it yourself. That’s not to say I invented the word; it
was in usage long before that. It was uncommon back then is all, not common
usage. But I know I was the first (back in the days of reluctantatheist.com,
which has long been defunct). Can’t prove it. Not a huge milestone either (for
me or anyone else).

But I digress.

It warms the cockles of me heart, though, to see so many of my prior points
mirrored somewhere else.

For your edification:

    The religious have gone insane: The separation of church and state — and
    Scalia from his mind

    The headline on the News Nerd was almost too good to be true: “American
    Psychological Association to Classify Belief in God As a Mental Illness.” 
    A study, the story beneath it read, had led the APA to conclude that “a
    strong and passionate belief in a deity or higher power, to the point where
    it impairs one’s ability to make conscientious decisions about common sense
    matters, will now be classified as a mental illness.”  Faith’s recurrent
    lethality was adduced: “Every year thousands of people die after refusing
    life-saving treatment on religious grounds.”  Jehovah’s Witnesses, for
    example, said the article, refuse lifesaving transfusions (on account of
    biblical prohibitions against the drinking of blood).

    Most gratifyingly, for a rationalist, the author quoted a certain Dr.
    Lillian Andrews, who opined that, “Religious belief and the angry God
    phenomenon has caused chaos, destruction, death, and wars for centuries. 
    The time for evolving into a modern society and classifying these archaic
    beliefs as a mental disorder has been long overdue.”

    Finally, I thought, the educated elite is beginning to awaken to the threat
    that accepting, without evidence, the truth of comprehensive propositions
    about our cosmos (that is, religion, in all its inglorious  permutations),
    poses to the mental health of our society!

    A “strong and passionate belief” in a (nonexistent) God does our world
    immeasurable harm: look no further than ISIS or al-Qaida.  In fact, look no
    further than the damage religion causes to progressive causes of every sort
    (and thus to our psychological well-being) in the United States, from
    women’s reproductive rights to same-sex marriage to teaching science in
    schools to depriving federal coffers of $82.5 billion a year (in tax
    exemptions).  Consider the enrichment of all sorts of faith-charlatans who
    thrive off the gullibility of millions of Americans.  Recall the sick
    “purity movements” that allow meddlesome parents to ruin the lives of their
    daughters.

    I could go on.  In any case, it was to be expected that sooner or later
    psychologists would catch on to the quasi-psychotic elements (including
    detachment from reality, belief in spirits, hearing “the voice of the Lord,
    and so on) inherent in religion.

    But no!  I was wrong!  The fine-print disclaimer at the foot of the News
    Nerd’s page ruthlessly dispelled my elation: The story, like the others the
    site publishes, was “for entertainment purposes only,” and “purely
    satirical.”  In other words, a spoof.  The hour was not nigh; psychologists
    were not yet ready to diagnose firm belief in God as what it is: an
    unhealthy delusion.  Men in white jumpsuits won’t be forcing the faithful
    into straightjackets any time soon.

    (Yet would that it were so!  Imagine, so many Supreme Court justices and
    Republican politicians, from Antonin Scalia to Mike Huckabee and Rick
    Santorum, disqualified in one fell swoop on mental health grounds from
    holding public office!)

    In fact, religion, so potentially dangerous that the Founding Fathers
    established a “wall of separation” to keep it clear of our affairs of
    state, continues to enjoy an entirely unmerited imprimatur of
    respectability.  Yet the satire in the News Nerd’s piece derives its
    efficacy from an obvious truth: belief in a deity motivates people to
    behave in all sorts of ways — some childish and pathetic, others harmful, a
    few outright criminal — most of which, to the nonbeliever at least, mimic
    symptoms of an all-encompassing mental illness, if of widely varying
    severity.

    Why childish?  A majority of adults in one of the most developed countries
    on Earth believe, in all seriousness, that an invisible, inaudible,
    undetectable “father” exercises parental supervision over them, protecting
    them from evil (except when he doesn’t), and, for the mere price of
    surrendering their faculty of reason and behaving in ways spelled out in
    various magic books, will ensure their postmortem survival.  Wishful
    thinking characterizes childhood, yes, but, where the religious are
    concerned, not only.  That is childish.

    True, belief, say the polls, is waning, but that it persists at all, given
    the advances of science in the past couple of centuries, and especially
    since Darwin published “The Origin of Species” in 1859, does nothing if not
    lead a rationalist to despair.  Americans, by and large, cling to their
    religion (and, yes, their guns).  To have all the resources to begin
    reliably fathoming the mysteries of the universe, and yet to cast them
    aside for slavish fidelity to primitive fables (most of which deserve no
    more “reverence” than tales from the Brothers Grimm) that no one past the
    age of six or seven should believe . . .   well, such is the very
    definition of pathetic.

    Harmful?  Let’s leave aside the mass-market megachurch “God of Love”
    finding little or no textual support in the Old or New Testament, and take
    the terrifying deity as the sacred canon depicts Him.  One Bible verse
    alone (Nahum 1:2) describes Him as vengeful, jealous, wrathful, and
    furious. Or let’s take His supposedly more clement son, who orders us (says
    Matthew 25:41) cast into everlasting hellfire for trivial transgressions. 
    Who benefits from the misconception that a permanent, inescapable,
    unimpeachable tyrant oversees our thoughts and deeds, including those of a
    most intimate nature?  The life- and society-damaging neuroses generated by
    this crazed delusion afflict many of those around us.  That is harmful.

    But the harm is greater than that.  All in all, the most pernicious
    constellation of rubbish misbeliefs forming the core of the Abrahamic
    faiths concerns women, blamed for sin itself (the “original sin”), and the
    Fall of all mankind.  Every mainstream misogynistic superstition stems from
    the rotten old myth of Genesis: woman as made not in God’s image, but from
    one of Adam’s spare parts, and thus inferior to man.  Woman as temptress,
    woman as unreliable, woman as “unclean.”  The rest of the Old and New
    Testaments inculcate an array of injurious ideas: that women depreciate
    after their initial sexual encounter, and serve only to bear children and
    satisfy the lust of their mates.  That they must submit to their husbands
    “as unto the Lord,” keep silent in church, cover their (shameful) bodies
    and heads, and never have authority over men.  It goes without saying that
    none of this fosters mental health.

It goes at length, in a similar vein.

And it is ridiculous, it is rubbish. A slave-master mentality is fostered in
all of the Big 3 Abrahamic religions of the West. Whatever your imaginary
friend dictates to you, that is law. No argument. The trio of rubbish
emphasizes this – even Islam pushes complete submission. To whom? A bunch of
words in a book written by a violent pedophile. Just name your imaginary friend
something better than ‘Bob’ or ‘Harvey’ – an esoteric nonsense name like allah
or yaweh, and all is well! Clean bill of mental health automatically.

The Age Of Crazy is nearly at an end. Let reason dictate our course.

Of course stone-cold crazies like Scalia (hey, you say there’s no proof of
evolution, you’re a fucknut plain & simple, don’t care how over-educated you
think you are) or Cruz, or Ryan will be wailing and whining about how this (or
that, or whatever) doesn’t count not because it doesn’t, it’s because they say 
it doesn’t. Hoo-boy, can anyone say confirmation bias?

Religion is and should be consider a lunatic fringe, kept around for comic
relief, because it is extremely amusing once you’ve shed the shackles of
religious psychoses.

So keep laughing, keep pointing, keep ridiculing, keep criticizing. It’s still
a long way off and uphill, but it’s looking less Sisyphean each year.

Till the next post then.

Share this:

  • Facebook
  • Email
  • Twitter
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
Posted in Absurdity, America's image, Crazy fundies, Delusion, Education,
Religion, Religious decline, Stupidity, Superstition, Women's rights | 2
Comments

One Year Closer To A Better World

Posted on January 3, 2016 by KA

highlevelatheismIt’s another year past, the inevitability of entropy that
nibbles away at the fringes of our existence.

The world has improved in many ways. The stigma of being an atheist is fading,
as more flock to our worldview. Religion is diminishing slowly, rationalism
chipping away at the fairy-tale façade. The wholly bibble is taken a lot less
seriously these days, as its obnoxious a-historicity, constant and egregious
contradictions, and otherwise obsolete nonsenses are continuously called out.

The sexual shackles of the slave-master relationship that is religion are now
loosening as well. Gay marriage in America has changed the landscape of loving
for years to come.

Perhaps before I die, I will get to see:

1. Creationists being treated like the nutters they are,

2. The Catholic Church becomes a distant, unpleasant memory,

3. All 3 of the Big 3 (Judaism, Christianity, Islam) are reduced to the sad
little jokes they really are, and

4. All peoples are treated equally.

All of them are nice dreams – well worth striving for. Keep fighting the good
fight, folks: there is a light at the end of the tunnel.

Happy New Year, and here’s to another year closer to closing down religion.

Till the next post then.

Share this:

  • Facebook
  • Email
  • Twitter
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
Posted in America's image, And now for something completely different, Atheism,
Crazy fundies, Creationism, Islam, Religion, Values | 2 Comments

2015 – A Good Year To Be Secular

Posted on December 27, 2015 by KA

seculargreetingsAs the hours and days and months all draw to a close, a winding
down of events and lives, 2015 was a very good year to be secular.

Religion is more and more going into decline, and the landslide decision of
Obegefell vs. Hodges made gay marriage constitutional in every state of the
land (though how they pulled it off without scumbags like Scalia, Roberts, and
Thomas interfering, I could not guess).

And for the wistful, sentimental thought:

As an atheist, I would not force my views onto others, anymore than I would
appreciate that being done to me. My issue is not with crutches for the weak of
heart and mind: it gets you through the bad nights, who am I to piss upon it?
No, rather my problems is with the religious who would force their beliefs on
myself and others. Gay marriage is a one instance; in the ancient world, gay
marriage was not only practiced, but most folks couldn’t give a fuck if it
didn’t inconvenience their days or their lives. Once the Christians took over,
they stopped it right fast, even tried to stomp it out of existence
(homosexuality). Also as point of fact, the Catholic Spaniards were horrified
at the ‘abomination’ being practiced in Central America, that they proceeded to
slaughter and torture countless innocent victims.

No, much as I’d like to see religion vanish/disappear, the fact is that nobody
should play the thought police, or the ‘morals squad’.

And that should apply in all things. I want a country where the rich and the
poor are treated equally, not based on pay scale. I want a country where
everyone is treated the same, a level playing field. I want a country where
atheist, muslim, christian, jew, all are equals, no free passes, no special
treatment. No more ‘non-debates’ – climate change is real, evolution is a fact,
nobody is getting ‘persecuted’, and nobody is better than anyone else.

Because let’s face it: religion tears down individuals, and rebuilds them. In
the meantime, they get infused with all sorts of nonsense – the master-slave
mentality, that precursor of xenophobia that is tribalism, that dishonest
elevation of the religious person being ‘saved’ (which is shorthand for
un-equal).

So here’s to the end of a pretty decent year overall, and hopefully more
inroads will be paved for the secular folk that are to come.

Cheers!

Till the next post then.

Share this:

  • Facebook
  • Email
  • Twitter
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
Posted in And now for something completely different, Atheism, Climate Change,
Ethical behavior, Evolution, Gay Marriage, Politics, Religion, Religious
decline | 5 Comments

Actual Journalistic Integrity: Words Mean Nothing

Posted on December 20, 2015 by KA


    “Actions not words bespeak me” – Unknown. GodIsNOTFixingThis

I actually rather appreciate the sentiment, but not the event that prompted it:

    Daily News provokes with cover on Calif. shooting: ‘God isn’t fixing this’

    The front cover of the New York Daily News for Thursday takes a strong
    stance against how some politicians are reacting to the San Bernardino
    shooting with calls for prayer instead of tighter gun control laws.

    The headline says, “God Isn’t Fixing This.”

    “As latest batch of innocent Americans are left lying in pools of blood,
    cowards who could truly end gun scourge continue to hide behind meaningless
    platitudes,” the cover reads.

    House Speaker Paul Ryan and GOP presidential hopefuls Rand Paul, Ted Cruz,
    Jeb Bush and Lindsey Graham all responded to the attack with tweets about
    “prayers” for the victims of San Bernardino.

    The Daily News’ tweeted image of its provocative front page is currently
    the most retweeted of 2015 for the news organization, according to Twitter.

    Meanwhile, Democratic presidential hopefuls, including Hillary Clinton and
    Bernie Sanders, took a different tone and called for “action” to stop gun
    violence.

    President Obama underscored the need for stronger gun control laws in the
    United States after Wednesday’s mass shooting, which left at least 14 dead
    and 14 wounded.

    “There’s some steps we could take, not to eliminate every one of the mass
    shootings, but to improve the odds that they don’t happen as frequently,”
    Obama told CBS News.

    Some twitter users also called out for more congressional action.

    David Mignery tweeted “@SpeakerRyan We need more from you than prayers.”

    But others tweeted that calling for prayer should not be mocked at a time
    like this.

Yes, because prayer comes down HARD on people who mock it. Oh, wait. It does
absolutely no such thing. It does not take guns out of the hands of anyone, it
changes no minds, it alters nothing in the slipstream of reality. A prayer is
an unanswered knee-mail that accidentally comes true once in a blue moon, but
only because the person praying is asking for something available.

Of course the spineless Republicans are caterwauling for prayer. It fixes zero,
it maintains the status quo, it’s a crippled placebo that works on the more
feeble of minds. It also keeps the NRA lobbyists off their backs.

So get off your knees: nobody’s home nobody up there not even a ghost in a
machine or a brain in a vat.

We are all alone here, so let’s take care of each other, and stop passing the
buck to someone who doesn’t exist.

Till the next post then.

Share this:

  • Facebook
  • Email
  • Twitter
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
Posted in America's image, Bad God!, Crazy fundies, Delusion, for fuck's sake!,
Politics, Religion, Tragedy, Values | 2 Comments

Republicans Gone Retarded: The ‘Donald’ Trumps The 1st Amendment

Posted on December 13, 2015 by KA

starfishtrumpHonestly, I know I bang on about Islam, how it’s barbaric, how
it’s a vast steaming pile of supernatural crap – and yes, there are occasions
where I advocate the actual shooting of some of these people, but not full
scale (there are millions of Muslims I don’t have a real problem, I can’t tell
them what to do, think, say etc.). But in this country, there are no (and
should never be) a ‘thought’ police, or better yet, a ‘secular’ police. Just
like there shouldn’t be a ‘morals squad’ anywhere in the known world.

And when it comes to reality, maybe the ‘Donald’ should actually become an
apprentice to a politician with ethics (yeah I know, an oxymoron) or somebody
who actually understands the constitution.

    Donald Trump: Ban all Muslim travel to U.S.

    (CNN)Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump called Monday for
    barring all Muslims from entering the United States.

    “Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims
    entering the United States until our country’s representatives can figure
    out what is going on,” a campaign press release said.

    Trump, who has previously called for surveillance against mosques and said
    he was open to establishing a database for all Muslims living in the U.S.,
    made his latest controversial call in a news release. His message comes in
    the wake of a deadly mass shooting in San Bernardino, California, by
    suspected ISIS sympathizers and the day after President Barack Obama asked
    the country not to “turn against one another” out of fear.

    Trump’s comments are likely to roil the Republican presidential race,
    forcing many of his opponents for the nomination to engage in a debate over
    whether there should be a religious test to enter America.

    But his proposal was met with enthusiasm by many of his supporters, who
    showed their approval via social media as well as at his rally on Monday
    night.

    RELATED: Trump to critics of Muslim travel ban: I don’t care

    “I think that we should definitely disallow any Muslims from coming in. Any
    of them. The reason is simple: we can’t identify what their attitude is,”
    said 75-year-old Charlie Marzka of Myrtle Beach, South Carolina.

    Moreover, the Muslim travel ban will likely do little to dent Trump’s own
    popularity among Republican primary voters. The billionaire businessman has
    dominated the GOP contest for months despite repeated controversies that
    would likely sink other White House hopefuls.

    “Without looking at the various polling data, it is obvious to anybody the
    hatred is beyond comprehension. Where this hatred comes from and why we
    will have to determine,” Trump said in a statement. “Until we are able to
    determine and understand this problem and the dangerous threat it poses,
    our country cannot be the victims of horrendous attacks by people that
    believe only in Jihad, and have no sense of reason or respect for human
    life.”

    Trump’s campaign added in the release that such a ban should remain in
    effect “until our country’s representatives can figure out what is going
    on.”

    The release pointed to an online poll from the controversial Center for
    Security Policy, which claimed that a quarter of Muslims living in the U.S.
    believe violence against Americans is justified as part of a global
    jihadist campaign. Critics have questioned the reliability of the
    organization’s information. It also pointed to a Pew Research poll, which
    the campaign declined to identify, which the campaign claimed points to
    “great hatred towards Americans by large segments of the Muslim
    population.”

    Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski told CNN on Monday that the ban
    would apply not just to Muslim foreigners looking to immigrate to the U.S.,
    but also to Muslims looking to visit the U.S. as tourists.

    “Everyone,” Lewandowski said when asked if the ban would also apply to
    Muslim tourists.

    “Great surveillance and vigilance must be adhered to,” said Trump in an
    additional statement Lewandowski provided to CNN. “We want to be very fair
    but too many bad things are happening and the percentage of true hatred is
    too great. People that are looking to destroy our country must be reported
    and turned in by the good people who love our country and want America to
    be great again.”

    Trump confirmed that his policy would not apply to current Muslims in the
    U.S. during a Fox News interview on Monday evening.

    “I have Muslim friends, Greta, and they’re wonderful people. But there’s a
    tremendous section and cross-section of Muslims living in our country who
    have tremendous animosity,” he told Fox News anchor Greta Van Susteren. “It
    does not apply to people living in the country, except we have to be
    vigilant.”

That old trope from Franklin seems salient: ‘Those who surrender freedom for
security will not have, nor do they deserve, either one.’

And all I can think when Donald Chump blathers on is, ‘Oh, great. ANOTHER
moronic Republican president who’s going to fuck this country right up.’

There oughta be a law. No, better yet, there should be a test. See if any of
these mental midgets are qualified to hold office. And denial of reality should
be an automatic flunk. You know, people who deny climate change, evolution, all
those key NON-ISSUES.

Till the next post then.

Share this:

  • Facebook
  • Email
  • Twitter
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
Posted in Absurdity, America's image, Delusion, Morality, Politics, Religion,
Stupidity, Values | 1 Comment

More On The Madness Of Muslims: Self-Radicalizers?

Posted on December 6, 2015 by KA

Muslim-Cartoon1This latest tragedy has been splashed across the pages lately
(Web pages? Does that metaphor still work?)

    California shooters likely planned multiple attacks

    U.S. investigators are increasingly convinced the California shooters
    planned multiple attacks, given their stockpile of weapons, and are looking
    at whether the Pakistani woman involved radicalized her American husband,
    officials said on Sunday.

    Investigators believe the weapons cache collected by Tashfeen Malik, 29,
    and her husband, Syed Rizwan Farook, 28, points to more attacks but they do
    not have evidence on other possible targets, a senior U.S. government
    source told Reuters.

    The couple stormed a gathering of his work colleagues in San Bernardino,
    California, on Wednesday, opening fire with assault-style rifles and
    killing 14 people. The pair were killed a few hours later in a shootout
    with police.

    U.S. authorities were trying to learn what contacts Malik might have had
    with Islamic militants in Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, where she grew up, the
    official said on condition of anonymity.

    They lack clear evidence that the wife was radicalized overseas or that she
    in turn radicalized her husband, though they are actively investigating
    that, the official said.

    Authorities are investigating the shootings as an act of terrorism.
    President Barack Obama scheduled an Oval Office address Sunday to outline
    how the country is responding to the broader threat of terrorism.

    Malik’s estranged relatives in Pakistan have said she appeared to have
    abandoned the family’s moderate Islam and become more radicalized in Saudi
    Arabia, where she moved as a toddler.

    She returned to Pakistan and studied pharmacy at Bahauddin Zakaria
    University in Multan from 2007 to 2012.

    “There’s a serious investigation ongoing into what she was doing in
    Pakistan and in Saudi,” U.S. Representative Michael McCaul said on “Fox
    News Sunday.” “We think that she had a lot to do with the radicalization
    process and perhaps with Mr. Farook’s radicalization from within the United
    States.”

    “The wild card here is the wife Malik,” said McCaul, the Republican
    chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee. He said investigators
    were also looking at where they got the money to acquire the guns.

    U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch said U.S. authorities have no evidence
    that the shooters were part of a larger terrorism cell but were working
    with their counterparts overseas to gather information about their lives.

    “We are trying to learn everything we can about both of these individuals,”
    Lynch said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “It will be a long process, it will
    be an exhaustive process.”

    “And we are trying to learn as much as we can about her life before they
    met, after they met and frankly, after she came here as well. What we are
    trying to focus on again is what motivated these two individuals.”

    McCaul said it was unclear what ties the couple had with the Islamic State,
    which has said the pair were “followers.” At a minimum, he said, the
    militant group inspired the attack. Malik is believed to have pledged
    allegiance to the group in a Facebook posting shortly before the shooting.

    “We have the computers. We have the devices. We are currently going through
    the forensics,” he said. “The investigation is ongoing to find out what is
    precisely the connection between ISIS, say, in Raqqa and in the United
    States, and what was going on.”

    McCaul also noted that Farook had a large arsenal of semi-automatic guns,
    hundreds of rounds of ammunition and pipe bombs.

    “We are looking at the terrorist financing aspect to this case. I believe
    on his salary, he was not able to buy this on his own,” said McCaul.

    U.S. officials have acknowledged they had no information about the couple
    before the killing other than routine matters related to Malik’s
    immigration status in the United States.

    Susan Rice, Obama’s national security adviser, said the case illustrates
    the difficulties in detecting self-radicalized attackers. “That’s a very
    real challenge and it’s one that preceded ISIL and I presume one that will
    endure beyond ISIL and its defeat,” she said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS.”

The savage lie of the afterlife prompts events like this. If these two crazies
had no belief in it, they likely wouldn’t have gone off and shot a bunch of
innocent people. In fact, in all the major shootings and crimes, white collar
or otherwise, you’d be hard pressed to find anyone who DIDN’T believe in an
afterlife. Some cheap rationalization of how it would be ‘judged’ or weighed or
whatnot. The Pavlovian component is undeniable (unless you’re religious, in
which case everything is subject to interpretation and then denial) – these
idiots wanted to impress their slave master Allah. And of course, like all of
the big 3 in monotheism, this requires blood.

Judaism is now barely a blip on the radar press-wise, Christianity is slowly
(TOO SLOWLY) mellowing out, now we’re stuck with the last of the savage creed,
Islam.

What we need now as a species, is to stop sugar coating reality, stop blindly
obeying our less rational impulses (most adults should be able to, but can’t),
and put aside this primitivistic nonsense. Our ancestors were for the most
part, assholes. History was written by drunken teenagers. We are at this point
now so much farther ahead than some of these pompous assholes they call
‘prophets’ – you know, those weird crazy assholes that wandered in out of the
desert, driven so mad by heat and dehydration that their drooling gibberish
should have earmarked them for a lunatic asylum, not a leadership role.

Shooting someone doesn’t make someone’s epistemology correct. Nor does
self-sacrifice. The only point religious violence makes, is that fantasy
ideology makes for the worst of the worst, blood sacrifices made to a mad
bloodthirsty imaginary friend.

Till the next post then.

Share this:

  • Facebook
  • Email
  • Twitter
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
Posted in Bad God!, Crazy fundies, Islam, Morality, Religion, Stupidity,
Superstition, Tragedy | 2 Comments
← Older posts

  • Follow Atheist Oasis on Twitter!

      □ Blog post: More On The Madness Of Muslims: Because When You’re An
        Animal All That Counts Is Blood And Guts goo.gl/fb/nbDj5a 5 days ago
  • Authors/Moderators

      □ Prof. Dan
      □ jimmer54
      □ KA
      □ naomi45
      □ naomi666
      □ Stardust
  • Log In & Stuff

      □ Register
      □ Log in
      □ Entries RSS
      □ Comments RSS
      □ WordPress.com
  • Contact us

    atheistoasis@yahoo.com
  • Recent Comments

    ● JunkChuck on More On The Madness Of Muslims…
    ● Stardust on And The World Changes, One Min…
    ● Stardust on One Year Closer To A Better…
    ● JunkChuck on And The World Changes, One Min…
    ● Woody on One Year Closer To A Better…
    ● KA on 2015 – A Good Year To Be…
    ● Stonyground on 2015 – A Good Year To Be…
    ● KA on 2015 – A Good Year To Be…
  • Recent Posts

      □ More On The Madness Of Muslims: Because When You’re An Animal All That
        Counts Is Blood And Guts
      □ And The World Changes, One Mind At A Time
      □ One Year Closer To A Better World
      □ 2015 – A Good Year To Be Secular
      □ Actual Journalistic Integrity: Words Mean Nothing
      □ Republicans Gone Retarded: The ‘Donald’ Trumps The 1st Amendment
      □ More On The Madness Of Muslims: Self-Radicalizers?
      □ Republican Gone Retarded: More Nai:ve Nonsense From The
        Nincompoop Right
  • Categories

      □ Abortion
      □ Absurdity
      □ Admin
      □ America's image
      □ And now for something completely different
      □ Atheism
      □ Bad God!
      □ Blasphemy
      □ Blog against theocracy
      □ Boo-fucking-hoo!
      □ Catholic church
      □ Climate Change
      □ Colorado
      □ Crazy fundies
      □ Creationism
      □ Delusion
      □ Education
      □ Ethical behavior
      □ Evolution
      □ Family
      □ for fuck's sake!
      □ Free speech
      □ Funny
      □ Gay Marriage
      □ Health
      □ Health reform
      □ Hinduism
      □ History
      □ Islam
      □ Judaism
      □ Libertarians
      □ marketing to Christians
      □ Marriage
      □ Medical research
      □ Morality
      □ Mormons
      □ Mythology
      □ Politics
      □ Pope Francis
      □ Pope-Ratzi
      □ Psychology
      □ Relationships
      □ Religion
      □ Religious decline
      □ religious right watchdog
      □ Science
      □ Scientology
      □ Separation of church and state
      □ Sexuality
      □ shooting
      □ Skepticism
      □ Spiritualism
      □ Stupidity
      □ Superstition
      □ Technology
      □ Tragedy
      □ Values
      □ Women's rights
    • January 2016
    M  T  W  T  F  S  S
    << Dec       
                1  2  3
    4  5  6  7  8  9  10
    11 12 13 14 15 16 17
    18 19 20 21 22 23 24
    25 26 27 28 29 30 31

  • Search for: [                    ] [Search]
  • Blogroll

      □ Apostates of Islam
      □ Atheist Ethicist
      □ Atheist Revolution
      □ biblioblography
      □ Debunking Christianity
      □ Evolving Thoughts
      □ Exercise in Futility
      □ Friendly Atheist
      □ Infidel753
      □ Jesus General
      □ Minister-Turned-Atheist (Joe Holman's Blog)
      □ Pharyngula
      □ Squatlo Rant
      □ Stardust Musings and Thoughts for the Freethinker
      □ The Atheist Jew
      □ The Freethinker
  • News and Resources

      □ American Atheists
      □ Americans United for Separation of Church and State
      □ An Atheist Manifesto
      □ Anthropology resources on the net
      □ Atheism at About.com (Austin Cline)
      □ Atheist Network
      □ Beggars Can Be Choosers
      □ Celebrity Atheist List
      □ Church of Reality
      □ Encyclopedia Mythica
      □ Evil Bible.com
      □ Evolve Fish.com
      □ Freedom From Religion Foundation
      □ Freethought Radio
      □ Godchecker.com
      □ National Center for Science Education
      □ Philosphers list
      □ Positive Atheism
      □ Religion Stats Worldwide
      □ Salon
      □ Secular Coalition for America
      □ Secular Web
      □ Skeptic's Annotated Bible
      □ Skeptic's Annotated Quran
      □ Smithsonian Human Origins Initiative
      □ Snopes Urban Legends
      □ The Panda's Thumb
      □ The Revealer- Religion News
      □ Virtual Religion Index
      □ Why won't God heal amputees?
  • Fun stuff

      □ Atheists of Silicon Valley
      □ Betty Bowers: Better Xian
      □ Bible Code Digest
      □ Freethunk!
      □ Fundies Say the Darndest Things!
      □ Internet Weekly
      □ Landover Baptist Church
      □ Normal Bob Smith
      □ Wittenburg Door – religious satire
      □ WordPress smilies
      □ Yo God! God detectors
  • Blogs I Follow

     1. Atheist Oasis - A Rational Refuge
     2. WordPress.com
  • Blog Stats

      □ 504,866 hits
  • Archives

    Archives [Select Month  ]
  • 

Atheist Oasis – A Rational Refuge
The Twenty Ten Theme. Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Atheist Oasis - A Rational Refuge

WordPress.com

WordPress.com is the best place for your personal blog or business site.

Atheist Oasis – A Rational Refuge
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. The Twenty Ten Theme.
Follow

Follow “Atheist Oasis - A Rational Refuge”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 170 other followers

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address Your Name [                    ] Your Email Address 
[                         ]
loading [Send Email] Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:

[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
