skip to main | skip to sidebar

Debunking Christianity

Got A Title for My Next Published Book

By John Loftus at 1/22/2016 0 comments
Unapologetic: Why Philosophy of Religion Must End. To be published by
Pitchstone Publishing in November 2016.

●

A Picture of John W. Loftus

By John Loftus at 1/22/2016 0 comments
I finally decided to get a professional photo done of that rascal named John W.
Loftus (anyone know him?). It was taken today. Put it on a coffee mug. Use it
as your wallpaper. Or pin it to a dart board. When arguing against him use it.
When agreeing with him use it. I'm John W. Loftus and I approve of this
message.
[JC]

●

How To Best Attack Ancient Religious Mythological Beliefs

By John Loftus at 1/20/2016 0 comments
More and more I'm finding that atheist intellectuals and philosophers of
religion are granting too much when dealing with the coherence of such
mythological nonsense as the existence of Yahweh, Satan, hell, the virgin
birth, incarnation and resurrection of Jesus. It's like we skip a very
important step, even a crucial one in my opinion, when we grant ancient beliefs
that don't deserve any respect at all. Anyone who looks into the historical
evidence for Yahweh, Satan, hell, virgin births, incarnations and resurrections
will see these beliefs come from the ancient mythological past. The best way to
kill such barbaric and utterly ignorant beliefs is to look at their
mythological origins, and no appeal to the genetic fallacy can help the honest
believer here.

When we take seriously an idea we give it some sort of respectability just by
doing so. For instance, I doubt very much that philosophers would try to show
why Mohammad could not have ridden a horse around the solar system by offering
a detailed analysis of physics and horses.

There is a two pronged attack we shouldn't neglect. When we're dealing with an
ancient religious belief we should first attack it by linking it to the
mythological past where it belongs, and then we can attack its philosophical
coherence. If I were to do just one and not both, I would link the belief to
the mythological past. If my focus was on the philosophical coherence of the
concept I would still write a paragraph or two about its mythological origins
and footnote a few books on it (seen below).
Read more >>

●

Stephen Law's Five Morals To Guide Atheists and Believers In Our Debates

By John Loftus at 1/19/2016 0 comments
You'll find Dr. Stephen Law online all over the place. He seems indefatigable
in the goals of educating people and helping them escape from faith-based
reasoning. Today I discovered he's an active writer at the site for Center for
Inquiry. What's more I found his most recent essay to be something I agree with
completely, where he offers five morals that should guide debates between
atheists and believers. This is refreshing to me personally, having
participated in daily discussions/debates with believers for ten years now. So
here they are with my comments, along with a link to what he wrote from a
forthcoming book chapter. His focus is on issues that might cause offense
between us that could potentially shut down our debates, having atheists mostly
in mind. [He uses the name Peter to refer to a Christian believer.]

    1. There's a tendency among the religious to take offence at comparisons
    drawn by atheists between religious belief and other supernatural beliefs
    such as belief in ghosts, fairies, etc. No doubt some atheists do just want
    to belittle and bait the religious by making such comparisons. However, it
    seems to me that drawing such a comparison can be very appropriate. I
    certainly intend no offence by drawing it. I don't think the religious
    should take offence.

Read more >>

●

Quote of the Day, Giving Christians a Conscious Choice to Make

By John Loftus at 1/18/2016 0 comments
I've said it before and will say it again, if all you read are Christian
defenses of your faith then you're not really interested in the truth. It would
be like a Mormon who read nothing but the Book of Mormon, or Mormon defenses of
the Mormon faith. It would be like a Muslim who read nothing but the Koran, or
Muslim defenses of the Muslim faith. Get the picture? So if you don't read the
books recommended by apostates, those of us who have rejected your faith, then
you're not interested in the truth. I say this to jolt Christians into making a
conscious choice. Either start reading the books we recommend, the ones that
led to abandoning our faith, or admit you're really not interested in the
truth. See if this might jar a few of them into reading outside the box. My
guess is that it will.

Christian, before you complain about granting your particular faith equal time,
the only question is whether or not YOU have read our recommended books. Yes or
no? You need not complain about anything to us since we answer to our own
consciences. Have YOU read our books? It's a question for you and you alone to
answer.

●

Bernie Sanders Quotes From Martin Luther King Jr.

By John Loftus at 1/18/2016 0 comments
[Bernie]

Also:

[Martin]

●

Get Your Cherry Picked Bible Today!

By John Loftus at 1/18/2016 0 comments
[Cherry]

●

62 People As Wealthy As Half the World!

By John Loftus at 1/17/2016 0 comments
This report just stopped me dead in my tracks! LINK. Photo below:
Read more >>

●

Where Is Atheist Leadership When it Counts?

By John Loftus at 1/17/2016 0 comments
I'm going to talk Presidential politics folks. Atheist intellectuals and
activists are failing us when it comes to something that may do more for
atheist causes than anything else we can do, or say. Atheist leadership should
lead. So far they are failing us. I'm talking about leaders like Richard
Dawkins, Sam Harris, Michael Shermer, Valerie Tarico, Jennifer Michael Hecht,
Annie Laurie Gaylor, Dan Barker, David Silverman, Russell Blackford, Hemant
Mehta, Daniel Dennett, Jerry Coyne, Peter Boghossian, Barbara Forrest, DJ
Grothe, Phil Zuckerman and others, some of whom I am personal friends with, and
all of whom I respect for their contributions. What am I saying? We should all
be speaking out in support of Bernie Sanders for President for these reasons!

I'm not naive about this. I'm up to date on the controversies and the polls. If
you value my opinion at all, getting Sanders elected as the next president of
the US may be the most important thing we can do. I know politics is dirty
business. There are compromises that must be made. For if we get involved in
politics at all, rather than remain passive bystanders, we must fully support a
candidate. We cannot vote 35% for one candidate and 65% for a different one,
even though that's how we might think. I also know people don't like supporting
a candidate who doesn't win in the end, since we want to pick winners. So think
of it this way instead if you must: Even if Bernie doesn't win you'll be on the
right side of history. Eventually his proposals will win the day. Nonetheless,
I'm here to say Bernie Sanders can and will win. He just needs to win the
democratic primaries. That's where the general election for the top political
office will be decided, in the primaries, since polls show that in the general
election he'll beat any of the potential Republican candidates by wider margins
than Hillary Clinton. It will be too late to support Bernie after he wins the
democratic nomination. He needs your support now, when it's important in the
primaries. Supporting him afterward will be nice but not proactive, which is
not what leadership is about on this most important issue.

------

On Facebook Phil Torres says: "As a Sanders supporter myself, I strongly agree
with this post about the need for atheist leaders to voice support for Sanders'
campaign!"

●

A Good Example of Ridicule Based On Truth

By John Loftus at 1/17/2016 0 comments
[Church]

Labels: Ridicule ●

My Review of Kirk R. MacGregor's New Book On Luis de Molina

By John Loftus at 1/17/2016 0 comments
I recently reviewed Kirk R. MacGregor's book, Luis de Molina: The Life and
Theology of the Founder of Middle Knowledge, on Amazon.*Judging from a couple
of votes, readers don't like it. Here's one thing I wrote:

    I find it most interesting that there are a cadre of Christian evangelical
    philosophers and apologists claiming, as MacGregor does, that Molina "ranks
    among the foremost philosophical theologians in church history" (p. 15) who
    was only discovered accidentally by them when Robert Adam's told Avin
    Plantinga that a good bit of his defense of God in his 1974 book "God,
    Freedom and Evil" was straight out of Molina. Adams' rejected Molinism as
    did William Hasker in his 1989 book "God Time, and Foreknowledge." I would
    think that to say a given theologian "ranks among the foremost
    philosophical theologians in church history" as MacGregor did, when he's
    only recently been discovered by evangelicals who think of him this highly
    is unjustified, since his work was not appreciated by them until 1974.
    Unless of course, MacGregor is making a prediction of his stature into the
    distant future, upon which it’s way to early to call that. LINK.

For current debates on Molinism see Ken Perszyk's book, Molinism: The
Contemporary Debate.*

In other news, another rambling Amazon review of a book of mine by David
Marshall is getting way too many up-votes. Huh? Seems as though he's announced
it on a Christian forum and they agree it's a good one. He can deny this here
if it's otherwise.

●

Just Think About the Universe For Once

By John Loftus at 1/17/2016 0 comments
This applies to other religions as well.

[Size]

●

Scientists: All Men Look at Porn

By John Loftus at 1/16/2016 0 comments
[All]I saw this in my Twitter feed today. Christian, what's your view of the
sin of lust? Jesus: "But I tell you that anyone who looks at a woman lustfully
has already committed adultery with her in his heart." (Matthew 5:28) I'm told
Martin Luther said, "we cannot control what birds fly over our heads. We can
only control whether they build nests in our hair." This is supposed to mean
the sin of lust is not involuntarily seeing something improper; the sin is in
entertaining the thought once it comes. But when it comes to porn it is almost
always a deliberate act. LINK.

●

Quote of the Day On The Bible, Gross Income Inequity and the Christian
Evangelical Right, by Daniel Wilcox

By John Loftus at 1/16/2016 0 comments

    This is one of the main reasons I finally came to the conclusion that
    Christianity couldn't be true. The most devout Evangelical Christians
    tended to be the most self-centered/ethnocentric contrasted to a wide
    variety of others who were far more generous. LINK

●

I Don't See How Democratic Socialism Can Fail

By John Loftus at 1/15/2016 0 comments
The twin goals of Democratic Socialism are to meet human needs and at the same
time produce economic growth. So long as people maintain those goals I don't
see how Democratic Socialism can fail. The reason is because it's democratic.
It might have setbacks, I know. So excesses to the left or right need their
corresponding correctives so that a balance can be maintained between meeting
human needs and economic growth. It's a hard balance to sustain for decades. So
whenever human needs are not being met the populace will demand a corrective to
the status quo. Likewise, whenever economic growth suffers greatly that too
will demand a corrective, since it doesn't meet human needs either. Although
surely, the more we work at it then the better we get, so we don't have
excesses in the first place.

Neither pure socialism (or even communism) nor unbridled laissez-faire
economics work. What's left? Call it democratic socialism or socialized
democracy if you want, but I'm endorsing Bernie Sanders because of his specific
policy proposals. I like them. I think they can work. There is nothing in them
that calls for the end of capitalism. It's time for his kind of change.

●

The Bible, Gross Income Inequity and the Christian Right

By John Loftus at 1/15/2016 0 comments
I have been pushing for Bernie Sanders with his Democratic Socialism. There has
been quite a kickback from the very people who should be endorsing this
position, right-wing Republican evangelical Christians. Here's a bit of what
I've been saying in opposition to the conservative status quo.

Bible quote: Jesus said, "if you wish to inherit my kingdom, go and sell all
your possessions and give the profits to the poor, then come and follow me."
(Matthew 19:21)

Actual Christian response:

    I'm not sure where you're going with this thought as the quote is simply
    addressing the dangers of people relying on Government help without working
    and trying to provide for themselves and contribute to society. I believe
    the Bible passage you quoted to be more about letting go of items such as
    wealth that inhibit us from following Jesus with our whole heart rather
    than dictating how the poor are to be taken care of.

    The Bible is quite clear in both. The New Testament and the Old Testament
    that we are to work to provide for ourselves and our families. Here are
    just a couple quotes:

    2 Thessalonians 3 10-12: For even when we were with you, we would give you
    this command: If anyone is not willing to work, let him not eat. For we
    hear that some among you walk in idleness, not busy at work, but
    busybodies. Now such persons we command and encourage in the Lord Jesus
    Christ to do their work quietly and to earn their own living.

    Proverbs 14:23: In all toil there is profit, but mere talk tends only to
    poverty.

John Loftus:

First off, notice the radical individualism inherent with the misuse of these
texts. This may be the over-all problem in America, an antiquated Westward-Ho
individualism, and it's still here today.
Read more >>

●

I Am a Social Democrat And You Should Be Too!

By John Loftus at 1/15/2016 0 comments
This is a visual demonstration using many graphs showing why we should be
democratic socialists.

    I am a Social Democrat. The reasoning is simple, if you care about social
    equality, freedom, democracy, quality of life etc., then Social Democracy
    is the best way to achieve these. Many European nations apply Social
    Democracy to a certain extent but there are four nations which are truly
    Social Democratic: Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland. Let’s see how
    successful these nations are when it comes to what is important to a
    functioning society. LINK.

●

Anakin Has a Twitter Following of 24.6K

By John Loftus at 1/14/2016 0 comments
[Anakin]
Now that's a very impressive number of followers. Anakin began quoting my book,
so I asked him who he was, and began following him. I didn't expect what he
told me. His name is John Matthew Leone, saying: "I'm a former Fundamental
(later Evangelical) pastor from New Jersey. Graduated from a fundamental
Baptist seminary with a MATS and helped to plant several churches in
Philadelphia and one in Camden (NJ)." Below is why he's an atheist:
Read more >>

●

"Secular TeeJay" Has a Twitter Following of 13.8K

By John Loftus at 1/14/2016 0 comments
[Secular]
I don't know exactly how one gets a following that large (I know others have
more), but I'm guessing it takes a lot of hard work, or someone with lots of
followers to ReTweet your Tweets. We followed each other and I bid my readers
to follow him. He told me his deconversion story which I placed below. I ask
you, is it much different from a great many others we've heard? Seems like the
Bible is the #1 reason people leave the Christian faith. So read the Bible!
Read more >>

●

Another One Bites the Dust: The Value of Books In a Deconversion

By John Loftus at 1/14/2016 0 comments
Here lies one of the most comprehensive lists of recent atheist books out there
. The writer says "the 190 books below have largely (re)shaped my world view",
then chooses the top 80 books from them. Mine made the list!

This former Seventh-Day Adventist from Australia began looking into atheism out
of curiosity, beginning in 2008. What led this nurse away from faith entirely?
"Books mostly, that's what did it. Only after that year did I see some videos,
hear some podcasts, read some blogs, join some Facebook groups, attend an
atheist convention, go to some meetup groups etc." And then an all too familiar
sounding story played itself out:

    My journey begins. The train pulls out of the station from outer suburban
    Melbourne. I am on it, I begin reading my "book one". The God Delusion by
    Richard Dawkins. I felt awkward, embarrassed even and read it behind a
    magazine to disguise the fact. I had picked it up on a whim, seemed many
    others were reading it. My motivation was curiosity, my expectation was
    that it was all rubbish and I knew better as a Christian, my hope was to be
    able to refute everything with an apologetic stance etc. Questions were
    raised.

Then the author says what so many of us have repeatedly said: "Consider reading
"both sides", some apologetic books and rebuttals etc."

Notice the value of books here! Yes, books, not soundbites, not pithy sayings
or pictured memes, not podcast interviews, not YouTube videos, not blog posts
or Facebook updates. Books alone, out of the other media available, allow an
author to produce a lengthy sustained case for something. Books are also the
source for many of the ideas found in the other media.

Christian, have you done this? I've said it before and will say it again, if
all you read are Christian defenses of your faith then you're not really
interested in the truth. It would be like a Mormon who read nothing but the
Book of Mormon, or Mormon defenses of the Mormon faith. It would be like a
Muslim who read nothing but the Koran, or Muslim defenses of the Muslim faith.
Get the picture? And if you don't read the books recommended by those of us who
have rejected faith then you're not interested in the truth either. I say this
to jolt you into making a conscious choice. I want Christians to make a
conscious decision. Either start reading the books we recommend, or admit you
really are not interested in the truth. I have produced a monthly book reading
program for readers in what I call The Debunking Christianity Challenge. Read
these twelve books. Start this week! [I really should update this challenge for
2016, but by the end of this year I will have published ten books, which means
my ten choices for twelve months would be my books, and that ain't right,
right?]

●

Phil Torres's New Book is Available Now

By John Loftus at 1/14/2016 0 comments
I wrote a blurb for it, as did a slew of important people. Link. Phil writes
for us here at DC.




●

Help Eliminate Some Book Titles

By John Loftus at 1/13/2016 0 comments
Short but sweet and titles:

 1. The End of Philosophy of Religion
 2. Ending Philosophy of Religion
 3. On Ending Philosophy of Religion

Attention getting titles that better explain what my new book is about:

 1. The End of Philosophy of Religion: Why It Must End, How to End it and What
    Should Replace it.
 2. The End of Philosophy of Religion: On Keeping Philosophers and Educators
    Honest in the University
 3. An Atheist Educator’s Manifesto: Why Philosophers of Religion Should Teach
    This Discipline Honestly and Thereby Put Themselves Out of a Job
 4. An Atheist Educators Manifesto: Why Philosophy of Religion Should End in
    the Universities
 5. An Atheist Educators Manifesto: Why Religion Is Being Taught in Our Secular
    Universities and Why It Shouldn’t Be
 6. An Atheist Educators Manifesto: A Call for the Secularization of Our
    Universities by Ending Philosophy of Religion Departments
 7. An Atheist Educators Manifesto: Calling for the Secularization of Our
    Universities by Ending the Philosophy of Religion Discipline

●

Bernie Sanders Passes Hillary Clinton in the Polls!

By John Loftus at 1/13/2016 0 comments
As of yesterday the unthinkable happened:
Bernie Sanders SURGES Past Hillary Clinton
In Iowa, Maintains +14 Point Lead In New Hampshire...

[Bernie]

●

Frank Zindler, the Voice of Atheism in America for at Least a Decade

By John Loftus at 1/11/2016 0 comments
[Zindler]Frank is a good friend of mine. We've spent several weekends together
talking and laughing and telling stories. At the age of 76 he's still an
indefatigable laborer on behalf of atheism. I've mentioned him several times
[See tag]. Here's a picture of us from this past weekend.

Frank was the voice of atheism in America for at least a decade, and he earned
the "Mr. Atheist" yearly award twice from American Atheists. Many young
atheists and new people to atheism have never heard of him. They should. Ed
Suominen, co-author with Robert Price of the book Evolving Out of Eden, wrote
up a very nice celebration of Frank's life.

Below you'll watch Frank do a great job of debating William Lane Craig. This
debate took place at the Willow Creek Church in 1994. I don't have the words to
express my contempt for Jeff Lowder, whose only comment about Frank Zindler, a
giant of a man, was that he's one of the worst atheist debaters. WTF? No
really, WTF? It took my prodding to keep Lowder honest, since that's apparently
a hard thing for him to do if left unchecked, by forcing him to change what he
wrote. Now Lowder says this is one of a handful of the "worst atheist debate
performances," and that too is nothing but dishonest self-promotion from a
non-credentialed wannabe self-proclaimed "philosopher." For apparently we need
Lowder to tell us what a bad debate performance looks like because we're just
too dumb to think for ourselves. And yet Lowder refuses to say what everyone
else but him thinks, that Richard Carrier's debate performance against William
Lane Craig was one of the worst atheist debate performances, making Lowder a
hypocrite as well.
Read more >>

Labels: Frank Zindler, Lowder ●

Are We Wrong to Expect the Bible's Assertions to be Reliable? Part 4 by Steve
Stewart

By John Loftus at 1/11/2016 0 comments
Steve Stewart was a music pastor in a large Evangelical church who's now a
freethinker. This is Part 3 in a series of posts from a paper he wrote [See tag
below for others].


JESUS OF NAZARETH

Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever.   -Hebrews 13:8
1 John 3:8 says, ”The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works
of the devil.”  What works of the devil did He destroy? Isn’t there as much or
more evil in the world now than before Jesus came?
Jesus said that His Father “has sent me to proclaim freedom for the
prisoners…to release the oppressed” (Luke 4:18-19).  Why doesn’t Jesus bring
about the freeing of the 30 million exploited and powerless captives who are
being held in slavery throughout the earth?
    The Jews were punished because they rejected and killed Jesus.  But what if
they hadn’t?  The whole doctrine of Redemption through Jesus’ blood would be
null and void.
When Jesus said, “Take no thought for the morrow,” (Matthew 6:34) didn’t he
realize how many people would take him literally and therefore foolishly make
no preparations for the future?  Shouldn’t He have qualified that statement?
Why doesn’t Jesus multiply loaves and fishes (Matthew 14:13-21) again to
provide food for the 17,000 children all over the planet who die from hunger
and starvation each and every day?
Why doesn’t Jesus again say “Peace! Be Still” (Mark 4:39) to the tornados,
floods, hurricanes and typhoons that have been devastating the earth God made
and killing its inhabitants?
Why doesn’t Jesus extend His healing hand in Haiti to strike down Cholera,
which has stricken more than 660,000 people resulting in more than 8,300 deaths
in the last few years?
How is it possible that Jesus said “Let the little children to come to me”
(Matthew 19:14) and also that the Holy Spirit inspired, “Happy is the one who
seizes his infants and dashes them against the rocks.” (Psalm 137:9)?
Read more >>

●

THE SECOND WAVE OF THE NEW ATHEISM: A MANIFESTO FOR SECULAR SCRIPTURAL
SCHOLARSHIP AND RELIGIOUS STUDIES

By Dr. Hector Avalos at 1/09/2016 0 comments
[BigWave]
BACKGROUND

The New Atheism is a name given to a movement represented by Richard Dawkins,
Daniel Dennett, Sam Harris, and Christopher Hitchens, all of whom wrote
best-selling books that were highly critical of religion [1].

Although the New Atheism does not eschew the classical arguments against the
existence of God, its focus is primarily on the immorality and harmful
consequences of religious thinking itself. For some, the New Atheism is not
merely atheistic, but also anti-theistic [2].

Another main feature of the New Atheism is a secular apocalyptic outlook born
out of the events of September 11, 2001. A secular apocalyptic outlook refers
to the view that religion has the potential to destroy humanity and our entire
biosphere.

However, many secular and religious critics of the New Atheism have charged the
New Atheism with a number of flaws. One is a lack of expertise in scriptural
and religious studies that has led Dawkins, Dennett, Harris, and Hitchens to
make pronouncements that are rightly viewed as simplistic or inaccurate in some
cases.

This situation has led to the perception that the New Atheism has no experts in
scriptural and religious studies that could challenge religious counterparts
with as much or more expertise. Others have conflated all New Atheists as
followers of a neoliberal or capitalist ideology. Still others note that all
the representatives of the New Atheism are white males.

Accordingly, there is a need to identify a Second Wave of the New Atheism. Such
a need was discussed briefly in Hector Avalos, The Bad Jesus: The Ethics of New
Testament Ethics (Sheffield: Sheffield Phoenix Press, 2015), but it received no
elaboration [3].
Read more >>

Labels: "Avalos" ●

Kenneth Winsmann On The Three Problems For Testing Petitionary Prayers

By John Loftus at 1/08/2016 0 comments
Kenneth responded to my post meant for honest Christians on how to test their
prayers objectively. He did so by presenting three problems which I responded
to each one of them. [Edit: These three problems were first argued by apologist
Trent Horn, so when I argue against them I'm arguing against Trent Horn].

Kenneth:

    I have a few questions about your test that I have been developing since
    completing WIBA. I have three challenges to your test and would love to see
    what you think here.

    1. The problem of interpreting results:

    Imagine that every single prayer was answered. Would that mean that God
    exists? Or that I had developed some kind of new age focus technique that
    controls reality? A positive karma shield? Or maybe Satan is answering
    these prayers to fool me and keep me from becoming a muslim? Or perhaps
    Stephen Laws Evil God answered them to bring about some greater evil. What
    conclusions would I draw?

    What if all of them fail completely. Nothing is answered. 100% negative
    response. What does that mean? Is God mad at me for testing Him? Is Satan
    trying to crush my faith? Is it all for a greater good? Bad Karma? Again,
    no answers.

    If the hits and misses run right about equal what would that mean? If I
    concluded that God does not exist, wouldn't that be committing the fallacy
    of affirming the consequent?

    Albany is in New York/' I am in New York/ Therefore I am in Albany

    Easy to catch the fallacy right? But now run it with prayer

    If God goes not exist my prayers will not be reliably answered/ my prayers
    have not been reliably answered/ therefore God does not exist

    Same fallacy.

My response:
Read more >>

Labels: "testing prayer" ●

I Just Got Another Book Deal Today!

By John Loftus at 1/08/2016 0 comments
Just as I was beginning to think my book publishing days were over, thinking I
had personally written all the books I had in me, I submitted a proposal just
to test the waters one last time, and lo and behold it was accepted for
publication! This happened just when I was beginning to think Randal Rauser had
successfully minimized my influence. *Whew* THAT was a very close call!! NOT!
More details will follow in the months to come. It makes me happy to make
Rauser happy, and Marshall, and Lowder, and Reppert, and even Parsons!! David
Marshall will now have at least two future books of mine to review, er, trash
on Amazon, while Lowder will still be bookless to speak of, and will still be
pleading for William Lane Craig to debate him. Dr. Craig, debate him for Pete's
sake. Make that BS in computer science stop whining! Maybe I'll just keep on
publishing books to keep them all happy...especially Marshall.

For the record I do not take kindly to bullies. Never have, never will. If you
want my disdain then try bullying me. It motivates me. It really, really does
motivate me. I can't explain why, maybe it comes from my potty training days. ;
-) What I know is that I was born for this, for if this is not who I am, I
wouldn't be doing what I do. All I can say is keep it up. It's like pouring
gasoline on the fires of my passion. You should all be congratulated, or
something!

●

Responding to Kenneth Winsmann On His Supposed Lying

By John Loftus at 1/08/2016 0 comments
Kenneth Winsmann is a Catholic who has darkened these halls with his presence
for a few months now. Some of my commenters don't like him, okay. They think
he's dense, okay. I think that goes without saying since he's deluded just like
all other believers. But some of my commenters think he's also dishonest.
That's their judgment not mine. I think he's testing his own faith in the best
way he knows, which is to comment here at the best site for testing one's
Christian faith, a site that has an unusually high number of intelligent
commenters. I don't think so because any Christian who writes this comment in
defense of the truth doesn't need to lie.

Perhaps I'm just slow to make that accusation, or just slow. I may be slow to
discover a liar because I'm not myself one, and have been conned a few times in
my life because it takes a con-artist to spot a con-artist. I have been
schooled because of my experiences to see them clearer. But when I discover an
unmistakable lie it changes things for me. Once I find a clear instance of
lying it makes me re-evaluate all of the other times I had suspicions but
didn't have enough evidence to say so. I had previously defended William Lane
Craig from that accusation. But in my book, How to Defend the Christian Faith:
Advice From An Atheist, I have a chapter on liars for Jesus where I show one
unmistakable instance of a lie during his debate with Stephen Law. Now I won't
defend him anymore. I have also made that accusation against three others after
dealing with them for several years. I have done so against Randal Rauser, and
David Marshall and Jeff Lowder. I think I presented good logical dispassionate
reasons why I think so in each case, that most everyone has either agreed with
me about, or in the case of Lowder, just asserted they don't like it without
answering any of my reasons for saying so. Apparently friendship and previous
endorsements of a dishonest person take precedence over the evidence. Shoot the
messenger rather than deal with the message! Claim the messenger is unstable.
Do whatever you can, as in the case of Rauser, to minimize my influence because
I soundly trashed him in our book.

But Kenneth? Not so much. So I'll deal with his argument against testing for
prayer shortly. In the meantime I'll open for discussion the question of how we
can know when a Christian is actually consciously lying, from merely being
deluded?

Labels: Lowder ●

The Value and Importance of An Outsider's View!

By John Loftus at 1/08/2016 0 comments
[Twitter]Look what I found on my twitter feed today! There is importance to an
outsider's view! Where have you heard THAT before? We all realize how important
this is in every other area. But when I say it regarding religious faith it's
denied by Christian apologists. Why the double standard? No really, why the
double standard? Please share.

●

Older Posts
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
●
                                       
                                Recent Comments

                            Show CommentsShow Feed
●

Subscribe! Don't Miss A Single Post.

[                    ]                                                 [Submit]

●

Seek And Ye Shall Find:

Loading...
●

Welcome to Debunking Christianity!

Dr. Craig Refuses to Debate John Loftus
A Call to End the Philosophy of Religion
Reviewing "Manual for Creating Atheists"
Why I Am Not a Christian. [2008]
Why I Am An Atheist. [2013]
An Atheist Visits the Creation Museum.
●

Followers

●

Direct Links to Our Books

●

About John W. Loftus and DC

Invite John to Speak for Your Group
Who Is John and What Does He Want?
How to Deal with the "Infamous Loftus Ego"
Frequently Asked Questions
The Outsider Test for Faith Links
Some Interviews John Has Done
Advice if You Leave the Fold
●

A Few Links For Christian Apologists ;-)

On God and Objective Moral Values
The Lie of the Exodus Out of Egypt
Plato's Cave Allegory and Faith
How To Destroy Natural Theology
Faith Based Belief Processes Are Unreliable
Dr. Hector Avalos Debates Biblical Morality
How to Debunk Christianity
The OT Caught in Lie After Lie
Here's the Evidence for the Multiverse
Take the Debunking Christianity Challenges
John's Top Posts from 2009 thru 2013
●
●

Four Debates John Has Had

vs David Wood on the Problem of Evil
vs Dinesh D'Souza on the Christian God
vs David Wood on God's Existence
vs Randal Rauser on Atheism vs Christianity vs David Wood on the resurrection
of Jesus.
●

Please Support DC

If this Blog or John's books have been helpful to you please consider making a
                          donation. Thanks so much!!!

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                  There are several different ways to donate.
●
●
[INS::INS]
●

Important Newer Atheist Books

●

More Important Atheist Books

●

Blog Archive

[Blog Archive  ]
●
●
 
●
