Atheist Ethicist

A view of right and wrong, good and evil, in a universe without gods.

Saturday, January 23, 2016

Williams vs Mackie on Practical Reasons

J.L. Mackie has a better theory of practical reasons than Bernard Williams.

This is the claim that David Phillips attempts to support in "Mackie on
Practical Reason" (in Philosophical Studies Series, A World Without Values,
Essays on John Mackie's Moral Error Theory, Richard Joyce and Simon Kirchin
(eds.))

Recall that, on the question of practical reasons, a person is looking for
reasons to do or to refrain from doing some action.

What counts as a reason to perform an action and what doesn't?

Williams is an internalist. According to Williams, the only reasons you have
for doing or refraining from some action come from some internal motivating
state. There is no such thing as an external reason.

Or, as Williams puts it:


    "A has a reason to φ if A has some desire the satisfaction of which will be
    served by his φing."


Insofar as we stick to "has a reason" as opposed to "there is a reason", I
would agree with this. 

In drawing a distinction between Williams and Mackie, Phillips asserts:


    For current purposes, the key feature of Williams' position is this: he
    gives a very special status to internal reasons claims. They can, he
    claims, be true or correct in a way that no other reasons claims can be.


By way of contrast, Mackie's theory of practical reasons (according to
Phillips) does not give anything any special authority.

   
    For Mackie, internal reasons claims have no such special status and in
    particular are not specially authoritative. The story about their authority
    is ultimately the same as the story about the authority of other normative
    claims: they are authoritative only when a certain background is
    presupposed; they lack the special authority that, Mackie the moral skeptic
    thinks, nothing in the world has.


As a part of the proof that Mackie provides a better theory of practical
reasons than Williams, Phillips provides three arguments against Williams'
theory.

Though I am sympathetic to Phillips' conclusion, I have problems with these
three arguments.

Objection 1. Authority

Phillips asks, "What someone's desires are is, to a significant extent, an
arbitrary, contingent fact about her. Why are her desires therefore a source,
or the only source, of authority?"

In other words, Williams' theory fails because it provides desires with an
authority that these arbitrary and contingent facts about a person cannot have.

My problem with this argument is that I do not know what "authority" is
supposed to mean in this objection.

My best guess is that it has something to do with justifying the action.
Phillips objects to the idea that "merely" having a desire that P - an
arbitrary and contingent fact about a person - can give an act a genuine
ought-to-be-doneness.

Ultimately, Phillips seems to argue that this type of authority actually does
not exist. The merit he sees in Mackie's theory is that all ought claims are,
in fact, contingent on some presupposition or another - on desires, on
institutions, on standards. Nothing provides the type of authority that
Williams gives to desires.

Objection 2a: Reasons, Good and Bad

In his second objection, Phillips argues that Williams' theory asserts that
there are reasons where no reason exists, and denies the existence of reasons
where reasons are present. He provides an example of each.

His example of a case where Williams asserts that a reason exists when it does
not concerns Alice, a smoker who gets no enjoyment from smoking and is well
aware of the harmful side-effects. Because she has a desire that would be
served by smoking, Williams would say that she has a reason to smoke.

However, according to Phillips:


    But surely the mere fact that Alice has this desire, and that procedurally
    rational reflection would not cause her to lose the desire, does not show
    that she has a good reason to smoke cigarettes.


But please note that Williams theory says that Alice has a reason to smoke,
whereas Phillips is objecting to the conclusion that Alice has a good reason to
smoke - a conclusion that Williams does not defend.

If a person can identify a reason as being a "good reason", then this suggests
that there are other reasons that are not "good reasons" and, perhaps, some
reasons that are even "bad reasons". These other reasons exist. They are just
not good.

We could agree with Williams that "A has a reason to φ if A has some desire the
satisfaction of which will be served by his φing."

Then, we can add to this a set of standards such that whether A's reason is a
good reason, a bad reason, or neutral is determine by the degree to which it
fulfills other desires, thwarts other desires, or has no effect on the
fulfillment or thwarting of other desires.

On this account, it is not the case that Alice has a good reason to smoke
cigarettes. In fact, given the harm that cigarette smoking does, Alice's reason
for smoking cigarettes would count as a bad reason. But it is still a reason,
as Williams says.

Objection 2b: Future Desires

Phillips mentions a second example drawn from Derek Parfit's case of a person
who is "future-Tuesday-indifferent". This person cares equally about pains and
pleasures on any future day except Tuesday. The agent does not care about
future pains that fall on a Tuesday.

In this case, Williams gives us an account that says that the agent does not
have a reason to avoid pain on a future Tuesday. Specifically, the agent has no
desire that would be served by taking an action that would avoid pain on a
future Tuesday. Therefore, he has no reason to avoid this future pain.

To start with, I am concerned with the idea of saying that a person has
(present tense) a reason to perform some action based on a desire that does not
exist at present. It strikes me as a bit odd - like saying that a person has
$1,000 that will be handed to him next week. In such a case, it is sensible to
talk about the $1,000 that the agent will have next week, but it makes no sense
to say that he has the money today. Similarly, we can talk about the reasons
that the agent will have for avoiding future pain, but the reasons that the
agent has today depends on the desires the agent has today.

In fact, to say that the agent has a reason to avoid future pain in this way is
to say that something exists (a reason to avoid future pain) that has
absolutely no capacity to influence anything in the universe today. The agent
will not act to avoid this future pain until the agent acquires an interest to
do so. Then, it would make sense to say that the agent has also acquired a
reason to do so. Until then, no motivation, and no reason, exists. At least not
yet.

Still, language is an invention and there is no law of nature that prohibits us
from using a present-tense verb to talk about the fulfillment or thwarting of
an agent's future desires.

It seems a bit confusing.

If this is how people speak, then perhaps what we need to do is to remove some
of the confusion and ambiguity from our language by adopting a more consistent
and useful set of terms.

When scientists discovered large objects in the Kuiper Belt of our solar system
that are like Pluto, some argued for correcting our language so that like
objects were lumped with like. Pluto has more in common with these Kuiper belt
objects than it has with the other planets. Consequently, these astronomers
argued, our language would be more efficient if we classified Pluto as a Kuiper
Belt object and not as a planet. They took a vote, and they changed the
language.

Similarly, when it comes to the relationship between having a reason and the
fulfillment or thwarting of future desires, perhaps we should simply adopt a
new language that pays attention to this distinction. We can say that a person
has a reason to φ if A has some desire the satisfaction of which will be served
by his φing, and that he will have a reason to φ if A has a future desire the
satisfaction of which will be served by his φing.

However, I can think of a reason for using the present tense even with respect
to future desires. This is because, even though the agent has no reason to
avoid future Tuesday pain, anybody with an ounce of compassion and concern has
a reason to try to get the agent to adopt (to create in the agent) a reason to
avoid future Tuesday concern. This is because having such a reason will
motivate the agent to avoid the future pain that compassionate people want to
see avoided.

So, in speaking in the present tense, we may be understood as saying that the
agent should acquire an interest in avoiding future Tuesday pain. In fact, we
may be seen as coaxing or urging the agent to have an interest. In fact, an
argument can be made that assertions of this type actually have the power,
under certain circumstances, to cause the agent to acquire such an interest. It
is for these reasons that we urge, plead, and try to make it the case that the
agent has a reason to be concerned about this future pain.

Objection 3: Phenomenology of Deliberation

Finally, Phillips argues that Williams' account "conflicts with the
phenomenology of deliberation".


    When we deliberate, we typically do not take the value of the options about
    which we deliberate to depend on our desires. Instead, we take the desires
    to be responses to the value.


As I see it, to the degree that people do this, they are simply mistaken.
People may not take the value of the options about which they deliberate to
depend on their desires, but it does. They make take the desires to be
responses to value, but there is no "value" out there for desires to respond
to.

Nature has given us desires for sex, to eat high-calorie foods, and to seek out
a comfortable environment because, in having those desires, we have tended to
act in ways that propagated the species.

Nature has given us plastic brains, so that experience will mold our desires to
some extent. This gives us the capacity to adapt to a range of environments.

Likes and dislikes molded by evolution and experience exist. A value
independent of desire does not.

It will turn out that there is one way in which we can like things because of
their value. This is in the sense of liking things because they are useful, and
usefulness is a type of value. Likes and dislikes themselves can be useful -
can tend to fulfill other desires. Consequently, even likes and dislikes
themselves can be liked (and encouraged, and promoted) because of their
usefulness.

Yet, being useful also depends on being such as to fulfill certain (other)
desires.

Actually, the problem, according to Phillips, is that, for many people, if they
come to think that the value of something depends on the fact that the agent
merely desires it, then the object loses its value.


    The problem is . . . that . . . a serious commitment to deliberation cannot
    easily coexist, in many normal agents, with acceptance of Williams' view.


We are aware of the phonemenon whereby an agent, with a desire to buy a Picasso
painting, comes across a painting he believes to have been painted by Picasso.
Consequently, he values the painting. However, when he learns that the painting
is a forgery, and was not painted by Picasso, he loses all interest.

Similarly, a person, in believing that a child is his, can have a great deal of
interest in the welfare of that child. However, upon discovering that the child
is not his, he may lose interest in the child.

Accordingly, a person may value something, believing it to have intrinsic worth
or to be loved by the gods. Upon discovering that there is no such thing as
intrinsic worth, or that there are no gods, they may lose their interest in
that thing.

If this happens - if the agent does lose interest under these circumstances,
this is hardly proof that the object in question, in fact, has intrinsic worth
or is loved by the gods. This would be like arguing, in the first case, if the
agent would lose interest in the painting on discovering that it is a forgery
means that it is not a forgery. Similarly, it would be like arguing in the
second case that if the agent would lose interest in the child upon discovering
that it is not his child then it must be his child.

The second of these examples is particularly telling.

If the agent truly cares about the child as a person - loves the child for her
own sake - then discovering that the child is not his would not diminish the
quality of his feelings for that child. It is only insofar as he loves the
child as his child that the discovery that the child is not his would threaten
that relationship.

Similarly, whether an interest in P will disappear if the agent discovers that
it is grounded on a desire that P depends on whether the agent has a genuine
desire that P (in which case the interest would not be threatened), or the
agent has a desire that Q and a false belief that Q is true of P (in which
case, discovering the truth will destroy the agent's interest in P).

Conclusion

So, even though I have some sympathy for and interest in Phillips' conclusion,
I do not judge that he has proved that conclusion. His objections to Williams'
internalism leaves Williams' internalism intact. Phillips needs to provide a
better account of "authority" that is supposed to be present in Williams' view
and absent in Mackie's. He needs to distinguish properly between "having a
reason" and "having a good reason". We can accommodate the practice of saying
that a person has a reason to fulfill future desires. Finally, we can explain
within Williams' view why people might lose interest in things upon discovering
that its value (if it has any) is grounded on desires.

What we can say about Mackie's view is that it offers a "unified oughts theory"
about a range of practical oughts - those that come from desires, those that
come from institutions, and those that come from standards and practices.
Williams, in contrast, only gives us a theory of desire-based oughts. Though we
can say, in defense of Williams, that institutions and standards are not
self-motivating. "A has a reason to enter into an institution or to adopt a set
of standards if A has some desire the satisfaction of which will be served by
his entering that institution or adopting those standards."

Posted by Alonzo Fyfe at 2:05 PM 0 comments Links to this post   ●

Thursday, January 21, 2016

What Should I Do? A Summary of Recent Postings on Internal and External Reasons

I just finished a fine digression discussing the article Reasons for Action:
Internal and External Reasons in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy - and
made a number of comments.

I suppose that I should start with a matter on which I apparently currently
disagree with most philosophers writing on the subject today. I hold that
having a desire is both a necessary and a sufficient condition for having a
reason. It is the "sufficient" condition that would be at odds with most
philosophers seem to believe.

In other words, to have a reason to do A is to have a desire that will be
fulfilled by doing A.

Of course, the agent might also have more and stronger reasons not to do A
based on more and stronger desires that would be thwarted by doing A.

In "What Should I Do? Desires Sufficient for Reasons" I responded to the
reasons why philosophers reject this idea.

The main argument identifies any of a substantial list of counter-examples
where a person has a desire to do A but does not have a reason to do A. These
generally involve desires for senseless things such as eating saucers of mud or
counting blades of grass.

In the article, I show that the desire to eat mud from a saucer is no different
from the desire to eat bagels or muffins past the point where it serves a
biological need. Consequently, we must assert that such desires can provide
reasons, or deny that the desire to eat a second muffin or bagel has such a
value.

Effectively, philosophers are taking desires they do not wish to have and
dismissing the interests of those who do (or would) have them. It is no
different from a person with an aversion to being a homosexual dismissing the
interests of homosexuals as failing to provide a reason for action.

It is important to note that I distinguish between "has a reason" and "there is
a reason". See: "What Should I Do? Having a Reason vs. There Exists a Reason"

The reasons that a person has are associated with the desires a person has, and
the reasons that exist are associated with the desires that exist. The desires
that a person has is a small subset of the desires that exist.

So, it is important that I explicitly said that a having a desire is a
necessary (and sufficient) condition for the agent having a reason. I would
reject the idea that having a desire is a necessary condition for a reason
existing. There are countless reasons that exist that are not drawn from the
desires an agent has - namely, those that are drawn from the other desires that
other people have.

If we take this and apply it to the question of internal vs. external reasons,
it turns out to be the case that I am an "internalist" with respect to "have a
reason" and an "externalist" with respect to "there is a reason".

To have a reason to perform an action is to have a desire that is served by
performing that action. However, there are reasons that exist for or against
perform that action that to not serve (or thwart) the agent's own desires.

This gives us a way to answer what the Stanford article calls "A Central
Problem in Ethics". See: "What Should I Do? A Central Problem in Ethics"

Namely, a problem with resolving the conflict between:

(1) To have a reason to do X is to have a desire that is served by doing X.

(2) An action is morally wrong for an agent to do only if there is a reason for
him not to do it.

(3) Some actions are morally wrong no matter what the agent desires.

Note the shift between "to have a reason" in (1) and "there is a reason" in
(2).

This simply tells us that there are reasons that exist other than the reasons
that the agent has, and moral value is determined by looking at the reasons
that exist.

We can also see this if we look at the role of "blame" in morality. See: "What
Should I Do? What Reactive Attitudes Tell Us About Reasons"

The Standard Encyclopedia of Philosophy article says that blame implies that
the agent has a reason not to do what was done.

I argue that blame tells us that the people generally - the people with those
external reasons - have reasons to cause the agent to have a reason not to do
what was done. These external reasons are, specifically, reasons to praise or
condemn. The purpose of praise and condemnation, in turn, is to mold desires so
that they come into harmony with the desires that motivate the praise and
condemnation.

The claim that blame implies that the agent already has a reason fails to tell
us why the appropriate response to doing what ought not to have been done is
blame. In contrast, the instrumentalist account provided here tells us exactly
why blame is the appropriate response - because of its power to mold and shape
the desires (and, thus, the reasons) agents have.  

Another distinction that I found being blurred in the article is
the distinction between desires-as-ends and desires-as-means. See: "What Should
I Do? Rational Motivation" 

This is a dispute over whether what reasons are provided by the desires an
agent has or the desires that the agent would have if fully informed or fully
aware of the alternatives or some other conditional state that improves the
agents' beliefs.

Desires-as-means are combinations of desires-as-ends and beliefs. Consequently,
it is true that accurate beliefs will help select more efficient means towards
their ends.

Still, what has value as a means - what an agent has reason to do - depends on
what will service actual desires-as-ends. Desires-as-ends are immune to reason,
so there is no type of belief-therapy that will have any effect on an agent's
ends. Its only effect will be to help the agent choose the most efficient means
towards those ends.

It is actual desires that give a person reasons to act. If a means serves an
actual desire, then a person has a reason to perform it. If not, then the agent
does not have such a reason. An agent may falsely believe that they have a
reason to do something they do not have. Similarly, they can fail to recognize
that they have a reason to do something that they actually have reason. In both
of these examples, the reason exists or does not exist based on actual desires.
Beliefs do not impact the reasons a person has but, literally, his beliefs
about those reasons, which may be true or false.

The linked postings contain more of the details - but I thought people could
use something that sets forth in one place the ways in which the various ideas
link to each other.


Posted by Alonzo Fyfe at 4:01 PM 0 comments Links to this post   ●

What Should I Do? Desires Sufficient for Reasons

Today I am going to argue against something that the bulk of philosophers who
write on reasons for action seem to accept.

The claim is that "Desires are a necessary requirement for reasons; but they
are not sufficient."

I will argue that having a desire is a sufficient condition for having a
reason. If you are trying to answer the question, "What Should I Do?" every
desire provides a reason proportional in strength to the strength of desire.

It does not necessarily provide a good reason. In order to determine the
quality of the reason we are going to have to look at how well it fits in with
other reasons for action - whether it will tend to fulfill other desires or
thwart them. However, desires provide reasons - good reasons, bad reasons, and
reasons of neutral value.

The aversion to pain is a sufficient reason to avoid pain - even in those
circumstances where pain does not do any good. You know that physical therapy
is going to be painful. The pain is doing nothing but giving you are reason to
avoid physical therapy. However, it IS giving you a reason to avoid physical
therapy. It may be outweighed by more and stronger reasons to have physical
therapy but, in the absence of those other reasons, one would have a perfectly
legitimate reason not to go to phyisical therapy.

Why do philosophers agree that having a desire is necessary, but not
sufficient, for having a reason?

The arguments come from a huge set of apparent examples where we can imagine
that a person has a desire but we judge that the agent does not have a reason
to perform the action.

From the Standford Encyclopedia of Philosophy article on Reasons: Internal and
External http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/reasons-internal-external/#DirExtArg



    The literature is also full of extensional arguments against theories which
    resemble internalism, but on the grounds that they overgenerate, rather
    than undergenerate, reasons. Many famous and colorful examples—about people
    who want to eat saucers of mud, or count blades of grass, or who have a
    disposition to turn on radios—are offered to show that not every desire or
    motivation is of the right kind to generate practical reasons. Strictly
    speaking, however, such cases only create objections to views which
    postulate a sufficient condition for the existence of reasons, and
    internalism itself postulates only necessary conditions, and no such
    sufficient condition, as Bernard Williams makes clear (1989), for example.


Why do I object to this argument?

It is because I do not see a difference between these desires and other desires
that people take to provide perfectly legitimate reasons for action.

Let us take, for example, the desire to "eat saucers of mud".

Earthworms eat mud . . . or, dirt, to be more precise, but mud is a form of
dirt that earthworms will eat.

Noting this fact, I have no difficulty imagining an extraterrestrial race that
has acquired a desire to eat mud. As we sit around the bargaining table in
orbit above Saturn with them working out an interstellar trade ready, we sit
with our bagels and muffins while they sit with their saucers of mud and we
work out the details of the treaty.

One could argue that this is different. They have a reason to eat mud - because
of its food value.

However, this alien race has something in common with humans. They tend to
over-eat. They will eat their saucers of mud even when they are not eating it
for its food value, just as we continue to consume more bagels and muffins than
we need to maintain good health.

When it gets to the point that they are eating saucers of mud for no reason
other than because they like to, they are no different than us when we get to
the point that we are eating bagels and muffins for no reason other than
because we like to.

Nature has given them a desire to eat mud as an end in itself - as a goal - not
as means for maintaining health, and so they continue to eat mud even beyond
the point that it provides good health. It is no different than the desire we
have to eat bagels and muffins - not as a means to good health, but as an end
in itself - which motivates us to eat bagels and muffins even when it does not
support good health.

Sex works the same way. We evolved to have a desire for sex because it
contributes to the procreation of the species. However, we evolved to have a
desire for sex as an end in itself - not as a means for procreation. Thus, we
engage in sex even in circumstances where we do not seek reproduction. In fact,
it is almost certainly the case that the bulk of our sex acts take place in
conditions where we know procreation to be impossible or are actively seeking
to avoid procreation.

In order to be consistent and coherent, philosophers either have to admit that
desires to eat saucers of mud, count blades of grass, and the like are
sufficient to generate reasons for intentional action for those people who have
them, or assert that our desires for food or sex beyond that which to maintain
physical health and propagate the species fail just as badly to provide reasons
for action.

By the way, there is nothing special about "maintaining good health" or
"propagating the species". The role that having these desires has
in propagating the species explains how we evolved to have them, but it does
not give them value. Even maintaining good health and propagating the species
has value (is something we have reason to do) in virtue of the fact that they
fulfill desires and for no other reason. The reason why I looked at examples of
eating saucers of mud or bagels beyond what was necessary for health was simply
to avoid these complications.

Ultimately, there is nothing else in the universe - nothing that exists - that
provides end-reasons for intentional action except desires so, if desires
cannot provide reasons, reasons do not exist.

Why do philosophers think that these provide such good examples against the
idea that desires are sufficient to provide reasons?

I think that it comes from a sort of prejudice. A philosopher - a human being -
looks at the imaginary person with a desire to eat dirt as something that she
does not wish to be. Her aversion to being that type of person (itself a
desire) causes her to dismiss the interests (desires) of that imaginary person
as illegitimate - as something incapable of providing actual reasons.

In a slightly different case, an individual can look upon a homosexual as
something that he does not want to be. Because of his aversion to being a
homosexual, he dismisses the homosexual interest as sick, perverse, as "failing
to provide a reason to engage in homosexual acts." Consequently, the interests
of the homosexual as a homosexual can be dismissed - it cannot provide a reason
to adopt policies or practices that would respect those interests. 

But, in fact, there is nothing behind this judgment but the agent's own
aversion to being that kind of person. There is no argument for this position -
just the expressions of approval given to those who agree and expressions of
disapproval given to those who disagree.

We tend to dismiss interests that are not our own. When we can get together
with other people who also do not share a particular interest, we can usually
agree with each other to dismiss it as irrelevant as providing "no reason" to
act differently.

It is relevant at this point to remind the reader that this digression is
taking place in a discussion of J.L. Mackie's Ethics: Inventing Right and
Wrong. Mackie argued that the distinction between the current (error-filled)
moralizing and a new and improved error-free moralizing rests precisely in
tossing out our tendency to dismiss interests that are not our own - precisely
because the difference we imagine finding between these different types of
interests do not exist in the real world.

I will repeat - desires do not necessarily provide good reasons for action.
Whether those reasons are good or bad depends on their tendency to fulfill or
thwart other desires. However, even bad reasons are still reasons (that are
bad), in the same way that bad apples are still apples (that are bad). It would
be great if bad reasons did not exist (just as it would be great if bad apples
do not exist). But they do, and they are found in desires that tend to thwart
other desire.

Still, I note that this is a minority position. It is not a position that is
shared by many people who write on this subject.


Posted by Alonzo Fyfe at 7:31 AM 2 comments Links to this post   ●

Wednesday, January 20, 2016

What Should I Do? What Reactive Attitudes Tell Us About Reasons for Action

First, a quick reminder regarding context and relevance.

You want to know what to do. You want to know what reasons count as legitimate
reasons for doing one thing rather than another. "Is this a good reason for
doing A rather than B?" "Does that reason even exist or is it just make-belief,
or a rationalization?"

The posts in this series, "What Should I Do?" are examining reasons for action.

In reading through the Standford Encyclopedia of Philosophy article, Reasons
for Action: Internal vs. External  I came across a section on "reactive
attitudes".

Reactive attitudes are supposed to tell us whether there are (or whether an
ancient has) external reasons - reasons not grounded on desires (on the agent's
own desires).

Recall, I have written that a lot of this conversation is muddled because of a
failure to distinguish between the reasons (desires) that an agent has and
reasons (desires) that exist - which includes the desires of other agents. Much
of the formal discussion pays no attention to this distinction. Consequently,
authors drift back and forth between these two concepts in ways that I find
confusing.

With this context established, we note that reactive attitudes suggest that
there are reasons for action (or an agent has reasons for action) independent
of the agent's desires or motivational states.


    Some have observed in defense of Moral Rationalism, for example, that if an
    agent does something we consider morally wrong, then we blame (or resent)
    him. But blame, these philosophers claim, involves the judgment that the
    agent had reasons not to do what he did. Consequently blame is unwarranted
    when such judgments are unwarranted (Nagel 1970, Smith 1994). Therefore,
    since moral wrongdoing is sufficient to warrant blame, moral obligations
    must entail reasons.


So, "blame" implies "the agent had reasons not to do what he did."

I disagree.

"Blame" implies "an agent should have had reasons not to do what he did (or
should not have had reasons to do what he did). In other words, reasons exist
for causing the agent to have reasons that are different than those the agent
actually had. Please note the use of the distinction between "reasons exist"
and "having reasons" in this account. The reasons that exist are the desires of
other agent - which provide the reasons for blaming people like the agent.

Why blame people like the agent?

The Stanford article describes Bernard Williams - an internalist with respect
to reasons - as arguing that blame has an instrumental role to play.


    [For Bernard Williams, blaming] in these cases functions as a ‘proleptic
    mechanism’: it itself changes the situation for the agent so that she now
    has an internal reason that she otherwise would have lacked (Williams,
    1989).


In other words, blame plays upon the fact that others have a reason to seek the
respect of other people. It withholds that respect as a way of giving people a
reason to do what, morally, they should do.

In Williams' sense, blame plays the same role as fines, imprisonment, and other
forms of punishment. It provides an immediate disincentive against performing
the wrong action. Because an agent has a need for personal liberty and cash, we
can threaten to take away his liberty or fine him and take some of his money to
provide an incentive not to do that which is wrong. And, according to Williams,
because agents have a natural interest in the favorable opinion of others, we
can use blame as a deterrence on those people who risk (or think about doing)
what they should not.

I would argue that it goes further than this. Incentives and disincentives
belong more to the realm of law than to morality. Insofar as blame is a moral
tool, its instrumental value rests in its power to actually change the desires
of others. It acts on the limbic system of the brain to mold desires - creating
aversions to the types of acts that are blamed. Disincentives of the type that
Williams talks about only gives a person a reason to avoid the wrongful act
when that person is at risk of being caught. The molding of desires, where
successful, gives people a reason to avoid the wrongful act even when the agent
has not chance of being caught, because it becomes something he wishes not to
do.

This goes back to the fact that blame is tied to the reasons the reasons that
an agent should have, rather than the reasons that the agent actually has.
Blame takes note of the fact that the reasons an agent has deviate from those
the reasons the agent should have, and then acts on the limbic system to bring
those reasons into alignment.

The Stanford article raises an objection to these instrumentalist accounts of
blame.


    This view is resisted by many who see the question of the appropriateness
    of a reactive attitude as primarily an issue of desert. Arguably, blame is
    appropriate only if it is deserved, and not if it is merely effective in
    influencing people's behavior.



In order for this objection to make sense, we need a suitable theory of desert.
What is it about a person - or a person's action - that makes him "deserve"
blame? In answering this question, we need to answer the question of "Why is it
the case that it is blame that is deserved?" We cannot hold up the
instrumentalist account of blame with this "desert" account until the "desert"
account has been filled out enough to allow for comparison.

I suspect that when we do fill out this "desert" account, we will come up with
a theory that says that a person "deserves" blame under those conditions where
the instrumental value of blame is most effective. There will be little or no
difference between the two theories in practice.

In fact, the question of "when do people deserve blame" will be best answered
by answering the question, "Under what conditions to those who blame have the
most and strongest reasons to blame?" The conditions under which those who
blame have the most and strongest reasons to blame are conditions under which
blame would do the most instrumental good.

But, this line of reasoning will have to be worked out in detail at another
time.

Posted by Alonzo Fyfe at 7:11 AM 0 comments Links to this post   ●

Tuesday, January 19, 2016

What Should I Do? Rational Motivation

In examining this issue of "what should I do", one commonly encounters people
talking about counterfactual motivation.

There is, on this account, a distinction between what would fulfill an agent's
actual desires, and what would fulfill the desires that an agent would have if
she were fully informed, or fully rational, or meets some other counterfactual
criterion.

I deny that these are different. Information, rationality, and the other
criteria that these people mention have no influence on an agent's actual
desires-as-ends.

Actual vs Counterfactual Motivation

Let's look at this claim more closely, then I will get back to issues that I
see with it.

According to the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy article, "Reasons for
Action: Internal vs. External"


    Another very important distinction among versions of Internalism is between
    Actual and Counterfactual versions. The former claim that if someone has a
    reason to do A, then it follows by necessity that she actually is somewhat
    motivated to do A (on the Motivation version), or actually has a desire
    that would be served by doing A (on the State version). Counterfactual
    versions make weaker claims: that if someone has a reason to do A, then it
    follows by necessity that she would be motivated to some degree, or would
    desire to do A, in circumstances of a particular kind.

    Different Counterfactual theories disagree over the nature of this
    “particular kind” of circumstances: prominent proposals include (i) that
    the agent be in possession of full information, or at least not have any
    relevant false beliefs (Smith 1994; Joyce 2001); (ii) that she have
    completed “cognitive psychotherapy” or that her attitudes have reached a
    state of reflective equilibrium (Brandt 1979); (iii) that she have a vivid
    awareness of all relevant contingencies (Darwall 1983); (iv) that she
    deliberates faultlessly from her existing motivations (Williams 1979); (v)
    that she be practically rational (Korsgaard 1986)—a suggestion to which we
    shall return; and (vi) that she be ideally virtuous—a ‘phronimos’ (McDowell
    1995).


Of these, the sixth option is different from the rest - so I wish to set it
aside. The first five all suggest making adjustments to an agent's beliefs -
that the agent be fully informed or aware of all relevant contingencies and the
like. The last on the list actually calls for the agent to have different
desires - good desires (virtues) and the absence of bad desires (vices). In
almost every case, this set of desires would be different from the agent's
actual desires.

My objection here is to counterfactuals that target beliefs.

Means and Ends

Much of what is written in this article seems to suggest that mistakes with
regard to "means" of obtaining various ends is somehow a threat to the idea
that reasons are grounded on actual desires. Thus, mistaken means are used as
evidence that we are required to use some sort of "counterfactual" theory of
reasons.

However, this is a mistake.

The mistake springs from the fact that the term "desire" (and similar terms
such as "want" and "prefer" are, in fact, not only used when we talk about the
ends or goals of intentional action, but also the means to those ends. A person
wants a job so that she can make money so that she can afford an apartment
where she can keep the temperature at a comfortable level. In this chain of
desires, only the latter is desired as an end in itself or as a goal. Other
things are desired as a means to that end.

False or irrational beliefs can get in the way of an agent getting what she
really wants (desires-as-ends). Our agent may take a job thinking that it will
allow her to pay for an apartment, only to discover that the job does not pay
enough. She may purchase a condominium that she expects that she will be able
to keep at a comfortable temperature only to discover that there is no air
conditioning and the building rules prohibit individuals from installing air
conditioning (because of old wiring).

However, when a person makes a mistake with respect to means, then it is NOT
the case that the agent "has a reason to do X". In these types of cases, the
agent in fact has no reason to do X. She only (and falsely) believes she has
such a reason.

Note that in the original quote, the article identifies "actual" internalism as
a theory that states that the agent "actually has a desire that would be served
by doing A." However, in the case of a mistaken means, the agent does not, in
fact, have a desire that would be served by doing A. The agent merely (and
falsely) believes that she has a desire that is served by doing A. The
proposition that doing A will serve a desire of hers is false.

To take another example. A person is thirsty reaches for a glass that she
believes contains clean water, though in fact it is poisoned. She does not
"really want" to drink out of that glass - she only thinks she does. A proper
awareness of the fact will cause her to realize this mistake and put the glass
down. It is perfectly legitimate to tell the agent reaching for the glass of
water, "You don't want to do that." Then, when she asks "Why not?" tell her
that the glass contains poison. She will respond by saying that you are
correct, she did not want to do that.

Reasoning About Ends

Desires-as-ends are immune to reason.

You cannot reason a person out of a drug addiction or out of a sexual
orientation. There is no syllogism that can prove that an agent's preference
for chocolate over vanilla is mistaken. Desires-as-ends, like height, weight,
age, and blood pressure, simply exist. You can no more reason a person to a new
desire-as-end than you can reason her to a new height.

Consequently, "full information" or "vivid awareness of all relevant
contingencies" or "cognitive therapy" is not going to change actual desires
into something else.

They will allow the agent to choose more efficient means to an end, but they
will not alter the ends (or the actual reasons) for intentional action.

These corrected beliefs can also be used to demonstrate to a person that she
has reason to take steps to change some desire-as-end. In the same way that you
can show a person that she has reason to lose weight, or to reduce her salt
intake (to lower her blood pressure), you can reason her into taking steps to
seek treatment for a drug addiction or to reduce his sex drive by showing her
that the addiction is thwarting other desires (if, indeed, this is the case).
Information (reason alone) will be as impotent in bringing about a direct
change to harmful desires as they are in bringing about a direct change to
weight or blood pressure. It takes "something else" to actually change these
properties. However, true beliefs may inform a person who is otherwise mistaken
that she has sufficient reason to go through the effort.

If we are going to argue that what an agent has a reason to do assumes that she
has these corrected desires, I am going to ask whether it also means she should
have the ideal weight and blood pressure. In all three cases, we are talking
about an agent going through the effort to make a physiological change. Why are
we to assume that the corrected desires matter but the corrected weight and
blood pressure do not?

Besides, if we are talking about correcting these desires, we are leaving the
set of counterfactuals concerned with corrected beliefs, which is outside of
the scope of this particular discussion.

Conclusion

The section discussing counterfactual internalism ends with this statement:

    Because it is uncontroversial that an agent can have reasons to do things
    that she is not actually motivated to do (particularly if she is unaware of
    those reasons), we will assume that interesting Motivation versions of
    internalism take Counterfactual forms.


It is only uncontroversial that an agent can have reasons to do things that she
is not actually motivated to do if we mistaken means to be relevant to having
reasons. A person has a reason to purchase a winning lottery ticket based on
her ACTUAL desires - the desires that she can fulfill with the money from the
winning lottery ticket. There is no different set of desires that she would
have with more and better information. There is only the improved ability to
determine the means towards those ends - the ability to choose the winning
lottery numbers when buying the ticket.

So, as we try to answer the question, "What should I do?" - of course we are
looking for whatever will actually fulfill desires, not for what an agent
falsely believes would fulfill those desires. That is the whole point of asking
the question. However, being fully informed, subjected to cognitive therapy,
and perfect awareness of the alternatives are only going to be relevant in
selecting the means to the ends, not the ends themselves. A person's actual
ends, and the ends that the person would have if fully informed, are going to
be the same.

Posted by Alonzo Fyfe at 4:31 PM 0 comments Links to this post   ●

What Should I Do? "A Central Problem in Ethics"

In order to refresh my understanding if the issues regarding internal and
external reasons, I turned to the Standford Encyclopedia of Philosophy - an
extremely valuable online resource. I sought an article called: Reasons for
Action: Internal vs. External.

There, I found myself wading into a familiar swamp.

I want to address what the author called "a Central Problem motivating much
ethical theorizing since the 1940s."

This Central Problem is addressed as a tension between:

(1) The Humean Theory of Reasons:

The Humean Theory of Reasons (HTR): If there is a reason for someone to do
something, then she must have some desire that would be served by her doing it.

(2) Moral Rationalism

Moral Rationalism: An action is morally wrong for an agent only if there is a
reason for him not to do it.

(3) Moral Absolutism

Moral Absolutism: Some actions are morally wrong for any agent no matter what
motivations and desires they have.

The tension is described as follows:

    For example, presumably it was morally wrong for Hitler to order a program
    of genocide, even if it served some of his desires and wasn't detrimental
    to any of them. . . . If (as Moral Rationalism claims) an action (like
    ordering genocide) is morally wrong for an agent (like Hitler) only if
    there is a reason for him not to do it, and if (as HTR claims) there is a
    reason for him not to do it only if he has some desire that would be served
    by his not doing it, then it follows that whether an action is morally
    wrong for an agent depends upon what he desires. But that seems
    incompatible with Moral Absolutism. So it seems we must reject at least one
    of HTR, Moral Rationalism, and Moral Absolutism.

We see in the Humean Theory of Reasons described above a deliberate conflating
of "there is a reason" and "she must have" a reason. HTR explicitly states that
a reason does not exist unless she (the agent) has it.

Clearly, desires can exist that the agent does not have - we have no problem
with that. The question is whether the desires that exist count as reasons that
exist.

Of these three, the one that I would reject is the Humean Theory of Reasons. I
would substitute the following:

The Revised Humean Theory of Reasons (RHTR): If an agent has a reason to do
something, then she must have some desire that would be served by her doing it;
but to say that there is a reason for the agent to do something is to say that
there is a desire that would be served by her doing it, but it need not be her
desire, though the relevant desires need not be hers.

Later in the article the authors state:

    Any Actual State version of reasons internalism says that to have a reason,
    an agent must have some corresponding actual motivational state. But this
    is precisely what makes reasons hostage to an agent's actual psychology,
    creating the tension with Moral Rationalism and Moral Absolutism.

However, this is not the same thing. It is true that to HAVE a reason, and
agent must have some corresponding actual motivational state. The problem
emerges when one insists that for a reason TO EXIST - that there can be no
reasons other than the reasons that the agent has. Recall, the original
phrasing for HTR begins, If there is a reason for someone to do something . .
." This is not the same thing as to have a reason.

Applying this to the "tension" described above, we can see that it is morally
wrong for an agent (like Hitler) to order a program of genocide because of the
many and strong reasons that exist against such a program, though almost all of
these reasons that exist are not reasons that Hitler has.

When it comes to the project of inventing a language we can use to talk about
these things, this leaves us with a few questions to be answered. The question
of whether to call desires that exist "reasons that exist" is a type of problem
comparable to whether or not to call Pluto a planet. We cannot come up with a
deductive proof or even a straight-forward empirical proof that other desires
count as "reasons that exist". We can simply decide whether we are going to use
language in this way or some other way.

I have been distinguishing moral-ought from practical-ought according to
whether "reasons for the agent to do X" includes "reasons that exist" (moral
ought) or excludes them (practical ought). However, this is nothing more than a
linguistic decision. I think I will continue to speak of reasons in this way -
at least for the time being.


So, if you are trying to decide what you should do in the practical sense of
"should", you would judge each alternative according to how well it (and its
consequences) fulfills your desires. Those desires, in turn, are to be
evaluated according to how well they fit in with your other desires. You have
reason not to promote or strengthen or even fulfill desires that will thwart
your other desires. At the same time, you do have reason to promote,
strengthen, and fulfill desires that tend to contribute to the fulfillment of
other desires.

If you are trying to decide what to do in the moral sense of "should", you
would judge each alternative according to how well it would fulfill desires
that people generally have reason to praise - and thwart desires that people
generally have reason to condemn. Their reasons to praise or condemn are
reasons for calling the act moral or immoral. Their reasons to praise and
condemn have to do with the effect of praise and condemnation on molding
malleable desires.

Well . . . this is how I would handle "a Central Problem in ethics".

I have another question to look at which is relevant here.

Philosophers also distinguish between the desires (motivating reasons) the
agent has from those that the agent would have if she were "fully rational" or
"fully informed" or meets some other criterion. I argue that, since neither
rationality nor information has any implications for what an agent "desires as
an end", that there is no difference between the ends that an agent has, and
those she would have if "fully rational" or "fully informed". I want to take a
look at that issue in a future post. Then, I suspect we can return to discuss
J.L. Mackie's theory of practical 'ought'.

Posted by Alonzo Fyfe at 7:15 AM 0 comments Links to this post   ●

Monday, January 18, 2016

The Poorest of the Poor

A second problem that I have with Bernie Sanders' campaign to be President is
his utter lack of concern for the well-being of the poor.

Earlier, I wrote about Sanders' use of the "politics of other" to promote his
candidacy. This is a campaign tactic where a candidate identifies some group to
identify as "other". The target audience is told that "the other" is
responsible for their problems and that the candidate will get tough on "the
other" if elected. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump identifies
foreigners and Muslims as "the other". Bernie Sanders targets billionaires.

Sanders' other problem is a disregard for the very poor.

In making this accusation, I am referring to the very poor on a global scale.

The World Bank reports that, in 2012, 12.7 percent of the world's population
(900 million people) lived on less than $1.90 per day, while 29.4 percent (2.1
billion people) lived on less than $3.10 per day. In 1981, 44 percent of the
population lived in extreme poverty.

Most of these gains occurred in China, where "753 million people moved above
$1.90 threshold" between 1981 and 2012.

For somebody worried about poverty, it would seem that this is a good thing.

A person who was concerned with the plight of the very poor, it would seem,
would consider this to be a good thing, and would want to see this continue. He
would want to see the remaining 900 million people moved above the lower line,
then see everybody move above the upper line.

Sanders almost never discusses global poverty. The fate of the poorest of the
world's poor seems not to interest him.

This fact sits beside the fact that Sanders presents himself as an advocate of
economic justice. He expresses a strong moral concern with economic equality.
This would seem to entail some measure of concern for those people living on
less than $1.90 per day.

However, Sanders simply dismisses the plight of the world's poor.

In a Vox interview, Bernie Sanders said:

    I think from a moral responsibility [sic] we've got to work with the rest
    of the industrialized world to address the problems of international
    poverty, but you don't do that by making people in this country even
    poorer.

I know of no way of interpreting Sanders' moral claim here other than to say
that it counts as a legitimate objection to a policy that aids those in poverty
that the program reduces the wealth of those who have much, much more."

Let us imagine a convention of millionaires in a hotel somewhere. Imagine that
somebody brings up the issue of poverty - even American poverty. Imagine the
individual in that room saying, "I support the Bernie Sanders doctrine. I think
from a position of moral responsibility we've got to work with the rest of the
country to address the problems of poverty, but you don't do that by making
people in this room even poorer."

The important fact to note is that Bernie Sanders has given voice to this very
same principle. He has used it in defense of his policies. Either there must be
some morally valid reason why this a valid moral principle when Bernie Sanders
utters it but not when the millionaire in the room utters it, or Sanders is
guilty of hypocrisy. It is a hypocrisy that he can avoid only by choosing to be
concerned with the plight of those living on less than $1.90 per day and
saying, "Yes, the quality of their lives matter."

Furthermore, the fact of the matter is that the successes against global
poverty have not made the people in this country even poorer. Real median
household income in the United States has risen approximately 10 percent over
the same time period - from about $46,000 in 1981 to $51,000 in 2012 in real
dollars. Certainly, many Americans would have liked to have seen a faster rate
of increase, but Americans have not been made poorer.

The "make Americans poorer" argument is a rationalization - a lie (if Sanders
knows what has happened to American median income during this time period), or
a fiction embraced as true because of its political usefulness.

More to the point, there is reason to believe that some of the policies Sanders
will pursue will reverse some of the progress that has been made. If a policy -
such as restricting international trade - would have the effect of throwing 100
million foreigners back into extreme poverty, Sanders' attitude suggests that
he would not see this as a relevant concern.

One of the things that I seriously dislike about Sanders' campaign - is the
fact that he refuses to even address the fate of the people in the world living
at near poverty. It is one thing to refuse to have a plan to help these people.
It is another to refuse to address very real possibility that one is advocating
policies that will make their situation worse - that will reverse 30 years of
progress.

The only sensible conclusion to draw from these facts is that, to Sanders,
those people simply don't matter.

Here, too, we see Sanders' adopting a moral attitude that is very similar to
the attitude that Donald Trump expresses - though Trump is more vocal in his
defense. This involves the utter disregard for the well-being of foreigners.
Those who are not Americans are not "people" in an important sense. What
happens to them is not a moral concern.  

The differences is that, while Trump expresses an active hostility towards
foreigners, Bernie Sanders simply doesn't care about them. If we return 1.2
billion to severe poverty - well - they're not Americans. It's not as if their
suffering actually matters.

Posted by Alonzo Fyfe at 2:09 PM 5 comments Links to this post   ●

What Should I Do?: Having a Reason vs. There Exists a Reason

The next article in the series on J.L. Mackie's Ethics will concern the huge
topic of "practical reason". David Phillips, in "Mackie on Practical Reason" ( 
in Philosophical Studies Series, A World Without Values, Essays on John
Mackie's Moral Error Theory (Richard Joyce and Simon Kirchin (eds.)) argues
that Mackie presents a better theory of practical reason than Barnard Williams
- the person whose theory is the most widely read and discussed.

Why should you care?

Actually, this - and a few postings to follow - involve a discussion about how
to answer questions of the form, "Why should I care?" correctly. Do you want a
right answer to the question, "Why should I care?" Then what follows will be
useful.

I am going to start with a set of distinctions that I use in trying to
understand this issue.

Note that I hold that desires provide the only end-reasons for intentional
action that exist. If you are looking for a reason to do something - or to not
do something - that reason is ultimately going to be found in a desire, or it
does not exist. The chain of reasoning might go through a chain of means (e.g.,
I will take the job so that I can earn an income so that I can buy a house
which I can keep at a comfortable temperature through summer and winter). But
why live at a comfortable temperature? It's just something that people like.

What are these distinctions?

(1) An agent has a reason to do X vs. there exists a reason for A to do X. This
corresponds to: The agent has a desire that would be fulfilled by doing X vs.
there exists a desire that would be fulfilled by A's doing X. The desires that
other people have are desires that exist, but are desires that the agent does
not have.

(2) Motivational/explanatory vs normative reasons. The desires that an agent
has are those that motivate and explain current behavior. However, we can take
those desires and ask how they fit in with other desires. A person with a
desire to smoke has a motivating reason to smoke, and this desire explains the
fact that she does smoke. However, when we take note of the way that the desire
to smoke leads to behavior that thwarts other desires. we find reason to say
that the agent has no GOOD reason to smoke. Smoking is not recommended.

(3) Practical vs. moral reasons. To ask what a person should do in a practical
sense is to ask what reasons an agent has for or against performing some
action. These are grounded on the agent's own desires. On the other hand, to
ask what a person should do in a moral sense is to ask how the action stands in
relation to reasons that exist - that include the desires of other people. More
specifically, it asks how the action stands in relation to desires that people
generally have reason to promote (and to the absence of desires that people
generally have reason to inhibit).

Note that I have listed these distinctions as I use them. Much of the
discussion that follows will concern alternatives ways of dividing up this
conceptual landscape and the merits of each alternative.

Here, specifically, Phillips is intending to contrast Bernard Williams' theory
of practical reason with that of J.L. Mackie.

Williams' theory is expressed as follows: “A has a reason to φ if A has some
desire the satisfaction of which will be served by his φing” (Williams, B.
1981, "Internal and External Reasons", In his Moral Luck, 101– 113. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.)

However, as Phillips points out, Mackie analyzes 'ought' (as in 'a ought to G")
in terms of "There is a reason for a's Ging."

Here, we see the discussion jumping across the line between "A has a reason to
G" and "There exists a reason for A to G" without even a mention that these are
not the same thing.

Since I relate "A has a reason" to practical ought, and "There exists a reason"
to moral ought, I see a risk of blurring the distinction between what is
practical and what is moral as well.

So, let's see if we can figure out how to answer questions of the form, "What
should I do?"

Posted by Alonzo Fyfe at 9:52 AM 0 comments Links to this post   ●

Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)

About Me

My Photo

Alonzo Fyfe
    When I was in high school, I decided that I wanted to leave the world
    better off than it would have been if I had not existed. This started a
    quest, through 12 years of college and on to today, to try to discover what
    a "better" world consists of. I have written a book describing that journey
    that you can find on my website. In this blog, I will keep track of the
    issues I have confronted since then.

View my complete profile
●

Subscribe

[feed-icon3] Subscribe to Atheist Ethicist

●

Email Subscription

Enter your email address:

[                    ]

[Subscribe]

Delivered by FeedBurner

●
There was an error in this gadget
●

A Better Place.

By request, I have written some of the basic principles of the desire
utilitarian moral theory that sits as the foundation for these blog postings
into a book called, A Better Place: Selected Essays in Desire Utilitarianism.

In a previous post, I wrote a detailed account of the contents of the book.

●

Luke Muehlhauser's Projects

a two-minute desire utilitarianism trailer

A free 43-page e-book on desire utilitarianism.

A FAQ on desire utilitarianism
●

Blog Archive

  • ▼  2016 (23)
      □ ▼  January (23)
          ☆ Williams vs Mackie on Practical Reasons
          ☆ What Should I Do? A Summary of Recent Postings on ...
          ☆ What Should I Do? Desires Sufficient for Reasons
          ☆ What Should I Do? What Reactive Attitudes Tell Us ...
          ☆ What Should I Do? Rational Motivation
          ☆ What Should I Do? "A Central Problem in Ethics"
          ☆ The Poorest of the Poor
          ☆ What Should I Do?: Having a Reason vs. There Exist...
          ☆ The Politics of the Other
          ☆ Pragmatic Moral Realism
          ☆ Motivational Force
          ☆ Trust Your Feelings? A Poor Way to Do Morality
          ☆ The Motivation to Do What One Ought
          ☆ Morality and Motivating Force
          ☆ Reasons: Motivating, Explanatory, and Normative
          ☆ Bill Nye on Evolution and Morality: Part 2
          ☆ Bill Nye on Evolution and Morality: Part 1
          ☆ Objectification and Intrinsic Prescriptivity
          ☆ Islamophobia and Atheism
          ☆ The Oregon Occupiers and Terrorism
          ☆ Anger, Evolution, and Morality
          ☆ What Are Moral Judgments?
          ☆ The Absence of Moral Properties

  • ►  2015 (15)
      □ ►  December (15)

  • ►  2014 (4)
      □ ►  November (1)
      □ ►  October (3)

  • ►  2013 (66)
      □ ►  July (1)
      □ ►  June (8)
      □ ►  May (7)
      □ ►  April (14)
      □ ►  March (12)
      □ ►  February (17)
      □ ►  January (7)

  • ►  2012 (189)
      □ ►  December (7)
      □ ►  November (14)
      □ ►  October (6)
      □ ►  September (9)
      □ ►  August (24)
      □ ►  July (24)
      □ ►  June (16)
      □ ►  May (18)
      □ ►  April (17)
      □ ►  March (22)
      □ ►  February (13)
      □ ►  January (19)

  • ►  2011 (177)
      □ ►  December (21)
      □ ►  November (18)
      □ ►  October (20)
      □ ►  September (21)
      □ ►  August (18)
      □ ►  June (9)
      □ ►  May (14)
      □ ►  April (15)
      □ ►  March (14)
      □ ►  February (14)
      □ ►  January (13)

  • ►  2010 (129)
      □ ►  November (1)
      □ ►  October (3)
      □ ►  September (6)
      □ ►  August (16)
      □ ►  July (17)
      □ ►  June (6)
      □ ►  May (10)
      □ ►  April (11)
      □ ►  March (23)
      □ ►  February (14)
      □ ►  January (22)

  • ►  2009 (381)
      □ ►  December (22)
      □ ►  November (23)
      □ ►  October (33)
      □ ►  September (30)
      □ ►  August (37)
      □ ►  July (21)
      □ ►  June (35)
      □ ►  May (33)
      □ ►  April (32)
      □ ►  March (31)
      □ ►  February (42)
      □ ►  January (42)

  • ►  2008 (344)
      □ ►  December (36)
      □ ►  November (22)
      □ ►  October (27)
      □ ►  September (26)
      □ ►  August (27)
      □ ►  July (30)
      □ ►  June (30)
      □ ►  May (29)
      □ ►  April (31)
      □ ►  March (29)
      □ ►  February (27)
      □ ►  January (30)

  • ►  2007 (343)
      □ ►  December (30)
      □ ►  November (24)
      □ ►  October (28)
      □ ►  September (22)
      □ ►  August (30)
      □ ►  July (29)
      □ ►  June (29)
      □ ►  May (31)
      □ ►  April (30)
      □ ►  March (31)
      □ ►  February (28)
      □ ►  January (31)

  • ►  2006 (356)
      □ ►  December (31)
      □ ►  November (27)
      □ ►  October (30)
      □ ►  September (30)
      □ ►  August (31)
      □ ►  July (31)
      □ ►  June (30)
      □ ►  May (29)
      □ ►  April (30)
      □ ►  March (30)
      □ ►  February (26)
      □ ►  January (31)

  • ►  2005 (113)
      □ ►  December (31)
      □ ►  November (30)
      □ ►  October (31)
      □ ►  September (21)

●

Links

  • The Nizkor Project: Fallacies
  • The Fallacy Files
  • Introduction to Logic
  • The Internet Infidels
  • The Infidel Guy Radio Show
  • About Agnosticism/Atheism
  • Atheist Blogs Aggregated
  • Planet Atheism
  • FactCheck.org

●
There was an error in this gadget
●
