*

Unintelligent Design

From Uncyclopedia, the content-free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search
Bouncywikilogo9
For the religious among us who choose to believe lies, the so-called experts at
Wikipedia have an article about Unintelligent Design.
Unintelligent design  

An image of what Unintelligent Design might have looked like.

Unintelligent Design is the theory that the world was designed by some higher
power, but this higher power did a piss poor job at it. There are many theories
as to how the universe could have been so stupidly and half-heartedly spilt
into existence.

Contents

[show]

edit Theories

edit Theory Number One: Anti-God

Theory Number One focuses upon Anti-God as the being who accidentally created
this universe. Because of the many flaws of our universe, such as deja vu, AIDS
, and the Monday Night Football crew on ESPN, this theory holds some weight. It
is believed that during the creation period, God and his brother Anti-God
fought over the rights to create the universe. They duked it out, Ro-Sham-Bo
style. God won, but Anti-God took it to court because he claimed that, "God
knows everything, the guy's omniscient!" God settled out of court, as (having
no lawyers that served him) he knew he would lose. Anti-God then tried to
create the universe, and look at what happened. And you know those parallel
universes where everything goes right? Those are actually the back-up universes
that God created. Bastard.

edit Theory Number Two: Dragon Ball Z-ism

There are over nine thousand universes.

edit Theory Number Three: Marty McFly

Based upon the fact that Mr McFly specialized in time travel lawsuits, it is
believed that he may have invented the universe by accident. This theory is the
most disputed of all, mostly because McFly continues to revisit the past to
attempt to change it, thus confusing the issue.

edit Theory Number Four: Captain Oblivious

Since there are so many flaws and so much stupidity in the universe, some have
theorized that the only plausible explanation is that Captain Oblivious is
pulling all the strings and is solely responsible for this entire mess we call
reality. He has simply "forgotten" to wrap up the many loose ends in the
ephemeral strings that reality constitutes of, and continues to do so time
after time.

edit Theory Number Five: Steve Urkel

Based upon Steve Urkel's constant use of the phrase "Did I do that???", some
believe that he singlehandedly created (and messed up) the universe by accident
and continues to say "Did I do that???"' whenever he messes up something more,
perhaps out of guilt for having doomed reality. Based upon his regular creation
of various devices, he certainly could have invented something capable of
creating a universe from scratch with.

edit Theory Number Six: The Mega Superconspiracy

Some have theorized that as strange as it may sound, Xenu, alongside with rabid
spork-wielding squirrels, five dimensional imps, Emperor Palpatine, Cylons,
Illuminatian shapeshifting reptilian overlords, the Flying Spaghetti Monster,
Azathoth and Nyarlathotep and virtually every bizarre entity from every
conceivable conspiracy theory known to man are actually all in cahoots in
wrecking havoc across the entire spectrum of reality, and may even have created
it. This mess of a theory actually includes each of the other alternative
theories here described. The theory falls on its own absurdity, since these
entities would almost certainly have turned against each other long ago and
destroyed all universes while also destroying each other, long before any life
in the universe could begin to grow.

edit Theory Number Seven: Mega Conspiracy

Various speculators have speculated that their may be in fact a more plausable
theory lesser known to the mainstream believers of the Mega Superconspiracy.
These Speculators consist of various failed physicists, emo donkeys, and
Harvard Miles Stimpleton (known to many as former emo donkey current
existentialist Mega donkey leader). They believe that a massive underground
society of cloned Bill Clintons, free thinking leprechauns, castrated Vampires,
and various unknown german toy producing corporations operate a massive
underground order descendent from The Most Idiotic Being in the Universe. The
Most Idiotic Being in the Universe is said to have created our universe, to who
we can thank for The Jonas Brothers, Michael Savage, 13 year olds with access
to the internet, and of course the notorius Jack-gerbil. It is in the opinion
of these speculators (mainly Harvard Miles Stimpleton) that The Most Idiotic
Being in the Universe, when creating humans, accidently split their (formally
asexual) genitalia with a butter knife he was using on a frozen 3 month old Big
Mac, and thus created the two sexes. Emo donkeys still support this Theory
although many say it's creator (Harvard Miles Stimpleton) was in fact an insane
school janitor from Blutargusajus 5.

edit Other Theories: Other Theories

Many other theories exist based upon the unintelligent design theory. These all
revolve around the ideas of black holes and corgis and what not, but have not
near enough evidence to back them up. Therefore they are all dismissed as
"extremely unintelligent."

edit Unintelligent Design in Modern Theology

All mainstream theologians teach some form of Unintelligent Design. When a
person says "God works in mysterious ways", that's usually a euphemism for "oh
dear, he's cocked things up again".

edit Paganism

PlanningCommission  

The pantheon of Gods considers proposals for reforming the design of the banana
slug. From the left: Brahma, Zeus, God, Odin, and Ra

This Pagan theory states that there is a pantheon of Gods. By forming
committees, writing memoranda, and implementing bold new initiatives, this
pantheon created the world. During the First Age, the Planning Commission of
the Gods formed a vision statement. At the dawn of the Second Age, the Gods
scrapped the vision statement in favor of a mission statement. During the Third
Age, a committee was formed to determine the process for revising the method of
budgeting. The current age, the Fourth Age, has been marked by cost overruns
and disputes over the health care plan. The Fifth Age is scheduled to go online
on December 23, 2012. With its awesome powers, the pantheon of Gods continues
to shape the world today. Incidentally, Christians and Catholics are unwitting
pagans. Mormons aren't technically pagans, only Kyle Gardner is a pagan leader
of the D.C.A. (Damned Club of America), closely related to Douchebag
Granahanism, created by the Great Douche Ross, the principle theory of this
religion is to be an asshole to any nearby fatkids

edit Muslim

The Muslims believe that God was unable to create a perfect world, so he made
one that required maintenance. This went along swimmingly until God died. In
the world today, much has broken down badly, but not yet so much that it is
unlivable.

The Residence Association of the World state that any further material decline
in the quality of the world will result in a preportional decline in the rent
(currently set at Everything, payable upon departure). No information has been
given by the Residence Association about the likely scale of the reduction in
rent or when this change can be expected, however some analysts do believe that
if global warming continues that by 2050 upon your demise you will be refunded
upto 14 seconds of your life - akin to begin given the chance to see all the
best bits of Saving Private Ryan again.

edit Judaism

Jewish theology states that G-d is all powerful, but stupid. I mean, the guy's
only got three letters in his name, and he can only remember two of 'em.

edit Atheism

Atheists are great. They all have faith in Evolution, which was first proposed
by Darles Charwin, whose need to blame somebody for his scary eyes and
prehistoric brow led him to propose the theory. This theory claims that there
is no intelligence to life's design, because there is no intelligent life on
Earth. Rednecks call it the stupid random chance theory; They believe in a
cosmic lottery, in which they have invested every dime they have. A cosmic
lottery in which the numbers for life were drawn randomly from a fish bowl. At
some point, the lottery led to the spontaneous generation of life in a wad of
hair in a bathtub drain.

Eventually, the hair turned green and grew legs. Thus this created the
dinosaurs which gave birth to chickens which gave birth to monkeys, which gave
birth to humans. Of cause in reality this is impossible and the logical
conclusion is that the 235,356,789,345,657,897 species of life came about
instantly when god jerked off while leaning over the Earth.

They claim this is not intelligent at all, yet it is a fact to the origins of
life. They have proven this via New Math and New science, and thus it is an
accepted fact, and no longer a theory. All other theories, must therefore be
wrong, and people who believe them are stupid morons. The greatest example of
Evolution in action was when God took the Cylons and evolved them into sexy
ladies.

edit Christianity

Christian theologians believe that God aka George Burns created the universe
and mankind, then decided He'd screwed up and wanted to destroy all life. But
being a pansy, He changed His mind and let Noah build an ark. He also created
Satan, lumbago and the Ebola virus. Obviously this is about as unintelligent as
design can get. Don't forget that he (not she) makes hurricanes, this is
clearly a sign because he was wiping the dumbasses who couldnt evacuate a city
when a hurricane with Force 5 winds hit their city that was 5 feet below sea
level. WHO BUILDS A CITY BELOW SEA LEVEL??? The French, obviously. But the
French are not in a hurricane zone whereas many Christians in the Untied States
of America are. Idiots.....Serves them right....according to Christians God
must have made them put the city there...seems he has a sense of humour.

edit Mormonism

Seven words: Magical underwear and plays against substance abuse

edit Cthulhu Cult

Cthulhu cultists state that universe was miscreated by Azathoth, the blind and
lame God of Cows. Then came Cthulhu and created life on Earth, mostly as food.
Cephalopods are the top of his creation as proved by their advanced nervous
system and their perfect eyes with no blind spot. When men and women were
created, due to patent restrictions, it was with not-so advanced nervous system
and less than perfect eyes. Some women got tetrachromatic sight and some men
got colour blindness. Everybody lost 20 SP on first round.

edit The Debates

ScivsnorseScivsnorse  

The Scientist supporting Evolution debates a Pagan Viking supporting the
Pantheon of Gods Creationism theory.

    Contrast this with Intelligent Design, Stupid Design and Flying Spaghetti
    Monsterism

Debates were held between the many Unintelligent theories. First it was the
Atheists arguing Evolution against the Pagans who supported Odin and his
pantheon of gods theory. It all started out well enough. The Atheist Scientist
started to quote facts and evidence to support Evolution but the Pagan Viking
debater drew out his Battle Axe +3 of Frost Giants, shouted "Odin!", and
cleaved the Scientist in the head. Evolution lost that debate because the
Scientist representing it could no longer continue. The debates were abandoned
after that, and everyone just agreeded to disagree, and make fun of each other
secretly or on the Internet.

edit Evidence for Unintelligent Design

One of the compelling arguments for the theory of Unintelligent Design is that
the Universe carries within it Cosmological echoes of its creation via
Unintelligent Design, which are clearly observable today. Perhaps the most
important amongst these is Cosmic Microbrain Background Stupidity (CMB), a weak
form of electromagnetic stupidity which peaks in the stupidity spectrum
somewhere between Simon Mayo and Paris Hilton. Most cosmologists consider this
CMB stupidity to be the best evidence for the creation of the Universe by a
single Big Bollox-up Event. Studies have shown a correlation between life-time
exposure to CMB stupidity and decreased mental agility. It is a fact that
exposure to CMB stupidity is what makes home video recorders so hard to
program, along with their remarkable manuals, (see VCR Manual). It has also
been blamed for the widespread adoption of Microsoft operating systems, in
particular Microsoft Total Fucking Asshole Server 2006.

George Bush smilingGeorge Bush smiling  

Another example of Unintelligent Design.

Air cabin crew and frequently flying world leaders are routinely exposed to
increased amounts of CMB stupidity as they travel nearer to the edge of the
protective atmosphere; this could explain why many of them choose to paint
themselves orange and/or monumentally fuck up the world on a daily basis. [It
should be noted that this theory is fiercely contested by those who claim that
air cabin crew are all in fact descended from a small group of Oompa-Loompas
who escaped their confectionary related slavery sometime in the late 1930s,
approximately one generation before jet travel really took off as it were, this
being a major crux of their argument. They also claim that it is this genetic
bottleneck that is responsible for the bizarre behavior of cabin crew and that
their insistence on serving repulsive 'food' is a genetic memory induced
payback for their ancestors being forced to manufacture so many tasty treats
for Wonka Corporation. Most scientists agree that the Oompa-Loompa Theory
(OLT), is generally only put forward by those suffering from an abundance of
unintelligence, usually brought on by excessive Kitten Huffing

CMB stupidity was observed many times by various physicists throughout the
early part of 20th century, most notably at Bell Labs using a very very large
radio-gramophone horn which was originally intended to trap a giant mutant Jack
Russell Terrier. Unfortunately the scientists concerned were all eaten by the
outsized canine before they could report their results; the annual standing
conference on physics 1978 concluded that this was yet another example of gross
Unintelligence at work in the Cosmos. The dog was nominated for a Nobel prize.

The other theories, like Evolutionism fails to explain the facts, such as the
regression besides the evolution. The main case of regression is that some
exemplars of Homo sapiens became creationists.

Finally, Menstruation offers vibrant proof that no intelligent creator designed
any mammal.

edit See also

  • Ungod
  • Change Management
  • Evolution
  • Intelligent Design
  • New Intelligent Design
  • Stupid Design
  • Prankster Design
  • Science
  • Evil Atheist Conspiracy
  • New math
  • The Indestructible Properties
  • Homosexuology
  • Destructivism
  • Unimportant
  • Not-So-Intelligent Design

Retrieved from "http://uncyclopedia.wikia.com/wiki/Unintelligent_Design?oldid=
5712471"
Categories:

  • Religion
  • Science
  • Scientific theories
  • Stupid
  • Vexing Scientific Conundrums
  • Evolution

Views

  • Article
  • Discussion
  • Edit
  • History

Personal tools

  • Log in / create account

 

Navigation

  • Main page
  • Featured content
  • Current events
  • Recent changes
  • Random feature
  • Random article
  • Projects
  • About

Search

[Go]  [Search]
Community

  • Help
  • Community portal
  • Village Dump
  • Pee Review
  • Votes for Highlight
  • Votes for deletion
  • Votes for Pictures
  • UnSignpost

Participate

  • Things to do
  • Requested articles
  • Requested images
  • Report a problem
  • What's happening
  • Foreign Office

Toolbox

  • What links here
  • Related changes
  • Special pages
  • Printable version
  • Permanent link

projects

Stillwaters chronarion.org
Creative Commons cc-by-nc-sa
Powered by MediaWiki

  • This page was last modified on July 3, 2013, at 03:18.
  • 
      □ Privacy
      □ About Wikia
      □ Terms of use
      □ Contact
      □ Advertise

Quantcast
