 

h2g2 The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy: Earth Edition

Find h2g2 Entries:

[                    ][search] [*] Edited Entries Only Advanced Search
  • Front Page
  • Categories
  • Editorial
  • Peer Review
  • The Lounge
  • Create
  • The Post

  • Sign In or Register

The
Hitchhikers Guide
To The Galaxy

Earth Edition

The Invisible Pink Unicorn Content from the guide to life, the universe and
everything [guide-cres]

The Invisible Pink Unicorn

Created Feb 8, 2007 | Updated Jul 10, 2009

4 Conversations

    If you feel it is the duty of others to refute the claim, and not of
    yourself to support it, then how about refuting the existence of invisible
    pink unicorns?
    - earliest mention of the Invisible Pink Unicorn on the alt.atheism Usenet
    newsgroup.

First 'revealed' to the world in the early 1990s, the Invisible Pink Unicorn,
or IPU, is a fictional deity invented by atheists and exists^1 as an
illustration of the problem faced by atheists when asked to disprove the
existence of a god by those of a religious persuasion. Due to her invisibility,
the existence of the IPU is impossible to disprove, and this is doubly so due
to the fact that, according to some, only her believers can see her. The IPU
has since gained some degree of fame, partially thanks to the Internet, and now
has a number of 'followers' who have deliberately expanded the idea so that it
more strongly satirises the 'real' religions. Those who 'believe' in her do so
either humorously, satirically or both, and have so far written many detailed
and contrasting accounts based upon various subjects including her love of
pineapple and ham pizza, her dislike of those who use the word 'an' in
conjunction with the word 'history', and the fact that she 'raptures' socks,
thus explaining the phenomenon of missing socks.

An History

The first mention of the Invisible Pink Unicorn dates back to 1990, when her
name was used as an argument against the idea that atheists had the burden of
disproving the existence of a god using only the evidence available to them. It
is likely that the IPU had been spoken of prior to this posting, but the idea
first gained momentum during the 1994/95 academic year at the University of
Iowa when students using the university's bulletin board system^2 created a
manifesto containing, amongst other things, a number of IPU references.

Popularised on Usenet, a global bulletin board system, and on the World Wide
Web, the movement has since grown and now has several websites devoted to the
IPU. Satirical debates now take place over such matters as whether the IPU is a
vegetarian and would not eat a ham and pineapple pizza, and the writing of
conflicting dogma is actively encouraged. An invisible unicorn was referred to
in Richard Dawkins' book 'The God Delusion' as being a popular equivalent of
'Russell's teapot'^3.

The Basics

  • Appearance - The Invisible Pink Unicorn is both invisible and pink, a
    deliberate contradiction which forms the basis of the entire religion. Some
    claim that the IPU is only truly invisible to non-believers, while others
    claim that this is simply wishful thinking mixed with hallucinations. Some
    say that the IPU looks invisible, but feels pink, while others say that she
    is pink but impossible to look at.

  • Holy Days - All holy days of all religions are considered to be holy days
    by the IPU. Special importance is placed upon 1 April, which should be set
    aside as a day for spreading the word of the IPU.

  • 42 - The IPU's followers generally agree that the number 42 has some sort
    of significance.

  • Socks - The laundry room is the shrine of the IPU, and some believers may
    be blessed by 'visitations in their laundry', while others may find that
    the IPU has left holes in their socks with her horn.

  • Epithets - Followers of the IPU will often include phrases such as 'Peace
    Be Unto Her', 'Blessed Be Her Holy Hooves' and 'May Her Hooves Never Be
    Shod', sometimes abbreviated as acronyms, after the IPU's name.

  • The Purple Oyster - Said to once have been a minion of the Invisible Pink
    Unicorn, the Purple Oyster of Doom was cast out of the green pastures and
    into the sea after having tried to convince atheists that the IPU preferred
    pepperoni and mushroom pizza. The Purple Oyster is said to lead
    non-believers towards destruction, and is thus remarkably similar to Satan.

  • Dislike of Theists and Non-Believers - The IPU is said to cast theists and
    those who don't believe in her into the Great Pile of Manure, where dwarves
    will nibble at their kneecaps and the Purple Oyster will force-feed them
    pepperoni and mushroom pizzas.

  • The Logo - The Invisible Pink Unicorn logo consists of a simplified outline
    of a unicorn's head, horn and mane surrounded by a circle, and is
    increasingly becoming a symbol of atheism in general. The logo is
    copyrighted but can be reproduced provided it is used to represent atheism,
    and has been touted by those producing merchandise bearing the logo as a
    subtle means of indicating atheism without offending those who are
    religious.

^1Or does not exist.^2A sort of precursor to the World Wide Web, a bulletin
board system allowed members of a network to exchange messages. Both Usenet and
the World Wide Web make use of the Internet.^3A fictional space-borne teapot,
the existence of which cannot be disproved and was suggested as an analogy to
God by Bertrand Russell in 1952.


Bookmark on your Personal Space


Conversations About This Entry

Sign in to start a conversation

Title

Latest Post

  • Citation
    Jun 22, 2010
  • Oh no! I'm doomed!
    Feb 10, 2007
  • Not to plug anything too blatantly...
    Feb 8, 2007
  • FSM and IPU
    Feb 8, 2007

Subscribe | Unsubscribe

Edited Entry

A18592815

Infinite Improbability Drive

Infinite Improbability Drive

Read a random Edited Entry

Categorised In:

  • Deep Thought > Philosophy
  • Deep Thought > Religion & Spirituality > Principal Players
  • Deep Thought > Religion & Spirituality > Religions, Beliefs, Artefacts,
    Doctrines & Practices

Tweet


Written by

  • AlexAshman

Edited by

  • SchrEck Inc.

h2g2 Editors

References

h2g2 Entries

  • The Answer To The Ultimate Question Of Life, The Universe, And Everything
  • Pizza - Not Just Italian Any More
  • Atheism
  • The Joy of Socks
  • Classical Theism
  • Manure
  • Usenet - an Introduction
  • The Versatility of the Pineapple
  • Mythical Creatures
  • The Flying Spaghetti Monster
  • Purple

External Links

  • Google Groups - alt.atheism
  • Invisible Pink Unicorn logo

Not Panicking Ltd is not responsible for the content of external internet sites

Write an Entry

"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy is a wholly remarkable book. It has been
compiled and recompiled many times and under many different editorships. It
contains contributions from countless numbers of travellers and researchers."

Write an entry
Read more

Most Recent Entries

 1. Julian of Norwich's World in a Nutshell: Life, the Universe, and Everything
 2. 'Despicable Me' - the Film
 3. Rover - the Rise and Fall of a Car Manufacturer
 4. 'Wyrd Sisters' - the Television Series
 5. How to Move Around in Space
 6. Sholom Secunda and Kinky Friedman Sing About the Holocaust
 7. 'The Colour of Magic' - the Television Series
 8. Yorkshire Wildlife Park, South Yorkshire, UK
 9. The Thirteen Club: Debunkers or Mythmakers?
10. 'Hogfather' - the Television Series

Help

  • About
  • How to Contribute
  • FAQs
  • Soapbox

About Us

Contact Us

  • Feedback

Follow Us

  • Facebook
  • Twitter

Statistics

  • Information
  • Month
  • Solo Entries
  • Coming Up

Other Stuff

  • Who's Online

