bg image(../assets/images/IPS-Background.jpg)
*      * [clearpixel]                                                                                                [clearpixel]      * *             *
         IPS-Eye-White             * ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ *   *      *              *
                                                                                                                         001orange    [IPS-Mailbo]
                                                         Section 10A .. The Contemporary Church/                                       
                                                          Treacherous “Christian” Organizations                                        

       * ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ *
             003white  Section 10A .. The Contemporary Church     >     Treacherous
                     Christian Organizations     >      TBN/Tele-Evangelists
       IPS-Header
[clear]                                                                                                                    
        Church-Index                               *   [clearpixe] ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ *  *
                                                                      Lifestyles of The Tele-Evangelist...

                                                                               Fleecing The Flock.

                                                                                  Carol Brooks

* ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ *
  "The church began as a movement in Jerusalem. It became a philosophy in Greece,
   an institution in Rome, a culture in Europe and, when it came to America, it
  became a business... a highly profitable business. But God is coming back for a
                                     movement.

   L. Ron Hubbard (Founder of Scientology) once said "Writing for a penny a word
   is ridiculous. If a man really wanted to make a million dollars, the best way
  would be to start his own religion."  While our modern day evangelists have not
    started their own religion, they have unquestionably improved on Hubbard’s
    idea. Capitalizing on Christianity has proved to be far more lucrative than
    starting a new religion. But as the Bible tells us.. evil men and impostors
     shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. [2 Timothy 3:13]

   Also see   Tithing   Merchandising the Gospel   Virtual Christianity     TBN

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━                                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                         IPS-Bar
* ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ *
  Introduction
  Most of the people on this page made their millions by preaching the Prosperity
  doctrine, which is the Word-Faith/Positive Confession movement applied to
  finances. It is centered around the idea that although Christians should keep
  one eye on Heaven, the good news is that God doesn't want His people to wait
  until then to inherit His blessings.

  It is deeply alarming that most Christians seem to be blissfully unaware of the
  fact that the principles of the Word-Faith movement being trumpeted from
  pulpits across the land, stem from the same occult sources as the spiritual
  movement known as New Thought. 

  The non-believing world claims that there are spiritual “laws” which people can
  learn to use on their behalf. These laws, which will work for anyone regardless
  of their religious beliefs (or even lack of) are referred to in different
  terms, but both sides use exactly the same techniques. [See Comparing The
  Methodology/Technique]. Make absolutely NO mistake.. the secular world, by
  learning and applying certain principles, can and does match, or even exceed,
  the gain that "Christian" ministers promise. And we are to believe that this is
  from God?

  However, since they claim to be Christians, the Word Faith group have to
  somehow “Christianize” the concepts, by adding God into the mixture. This in
  spite of the fact that a) there are no clear examples of Positive Confession in
  the Scriptures, b) The texts quoted over and over again by the Word of Faith
  teachers are usually taken way out of context and therefore do not prove their
  point, c) The Scriptures refute the general principles behind the beliefs and
  teachings of the Prosperity Doctrine camp and d) The teaching that believers
  are to confess rather than to pray for things which God has promised is
  contradicted by the Bible.

  If you happen to be among those who think Christian leaders are entitled to
  obscene amounts of money, visit the GFA (Gospel For Asia) page, read the
  article then order their free book Revolution In World Missions (No ‘love gift’
  asked for). Then, in view of millions who have never heard of Jesus, imagine
  how many souls an organization like GFA could save with money wasted on million
  dollar homes, antiques, jets, jewelry, fancy cars, wardrobes and watches.
  Finally decide whether you want to help Benny Hinn buy another Rolex, or help a
  missionary get a megaphone, some Bibles, a bicycle, a warm coat or even a pair
  of shoes, all of which are desperately needed. 

   

                                       INDEX

                    Paul and Jan Crouch's Earthly Empire... TBN
  TBN's Annual Income, Salaries, The Crouch’s Homes, The TBN Building and Private
                                      Suites

                                    Joel Osteen
               Lakewood Church and Osteen’s 10.5 million Dollar Home

                                    ***********

                                 THE INVESTIGATION

                                 Kenneth Copeland
  Salaries, 18,280 square foot Parsonage/Housing Allowances, Private Airport for
                        nine aircraft, Travel and Shopping

                                   Creflo Dollar
     Rolls-Royces, private jets, million-dollar Atlanta home and $2.5 million
                                Manhattan apartment

                              Paula (And Randy) White
  If one can afford a $2.1 million home on Bayshore Boulevard and a $3.5 million
   Trump Tower condo in New York, giving away a Bentley as a birthday gift is no
                                     big deal.

                                    Benny Hinn
  10 million seaside mansion; a private jet, a Mercedes SUV and convertible, and
  “layovers” between crusades at the cost of $900 - $3,000 per night at locations
                   including Hawaii, Cancun, London, Milan etc.

                                    Joyce Meyer
  Ministry Headquarters, Sports Cars and Plane, Meyer's Irrevocable Trust, Family
              Compound (including aerial view) and Personal Spending

                                    Eddie Long
   favors Gucci sunglasses, gold necklaces, diamond bracelets, Rolex watches and
   Bentleys, and says he is "on a different scale than the little black preacher
                          sitting over there" . I'll say!

                                     *********

                          “Bishop” Elijah Bernard Jordan
  This meglomaniac takes the proverbial cake, considering that the ceiling of one
     room in his multi million dollar mansion in an exclusive gated community,
     features a painting of Jordan on a throne – as God – with his three sons
                          hovering around him as angels.

                                    T.D. Jakes
  $2.6 million luxurious pink brick, seven-bedroom home with swimming pool in the
   affluent White Rock Lake area of Dallas...next door to the former mansion of
                               oil tycoon H.L. Hunt.

                                    John Hagee
                         One of the best paid men on earth

                                   Pat Robertson
                 has taken the word 'Christian' leader to new lows

                                    Fred Price
                 commutes by private jet between his two churches

                                   Juanita Bynum
       A "more than a million dollar," black-tie wedding, Swarovski Crystal
      embellished gown, a 7.76-carat diamond ring and a $4.5 million estate.

                               The Crystal Cathedral
  This "Hollywood" church, in the true sense of the word, spent spent between $13
  million and $15 million on a lavish production called "Creation", then declared
                              bankruptcy. No kidding!

                               Rodney Howard-Browne
                         the "bartender of holy laughter"

                                  James MacDonald
          A $1.9 million house puts him in some very interesting company

                                   Mike Murdock
    This "Wal-Mart guy" has a $25,000 Rolex adorning his wrist, and takes notes
                            with a $4,500 fountain pen.

                              Rev. James Eugene Ewing
                                   Oral Roberts
                               Jim and Tammy Bakker
                                   Robert Tilton

                              Leaving On a Jet Plane
                                Other CEO Salaries
                                    Conclusion

                                          

  Paul and Jan Crouch and TBN' Earthly Empire
  Tele-Paul-Jan-CrouchFounded in 1973, by Paul and Jan Crouch, TBN is
  headquartered in Costa Mesa, California, but also has studio facilities located
  in Irving, Texas; Hendersonville, Tennessee; Gadsden, Alabama; Decatur,
  Georgia; Miami, Florida; Tulsa, Oklahoma; Orlando, Florida; and New York City.

  TBN is said to be the third largest over-the-air Station Group in the United
  States, with CBS, FOX, and NBC holding the 4th, 5th and 6th place, according to
  TV News Check's annual listing of the Top 30 Station Groups. network. They
  certainly are ...

      "... the world's largest Christian television. Across America and around
      the world TBN is carried by TV stations and cable systems to millions of
      homes. As a matter of fact, TBN is featured on over 5,000 television
      stations, 33 satellites, the Internet and thousands of cable systems around
      the world. And the number continues to grow! [1]

  And they aren't kidding.. TBN is currently carried on 33 international
  satellites. The following is a partial list of their satellite network...[All
  Emphasis Added]

      Europe and the Middle East are being reached through Eutelsat Hotbird 6 and
      Intelsat 906; Eutelsat W4 covers Central Africa with direct-to-home
      service; the Express 6A satellite is providing Russian language programming
      to the Russian continent; Spain and Portugal are being reached by Hispasat;
      Intelsat 701broadcasts to Australia, New Zealand, the South Pacific islands
      and Southeast Asia; Intelsat 702 covers Taiwan; Palapa C-2 reaches India,
      Indonesia and Southeast Asia; TBN broadcasts Portuguese language programs
      to Brazil on Brazilsat B-2; and PanAmSat 9 blankets all of Latin America
      and Spain. [1]


  TBN's Annual IncomeOn August 6th, 2008 the Orange County register reported that
  according to Trinity's actual tax returns published onguidestar.org, an
  organization that gathers and publicizes information about nonprofit
  organizations, [2], In 2006, the most recent year reported, TBN

      "took in $200.7 million,

      spent $141.1 million,

      and socked away the extra $59.6 million".

  Which pushed TBN's net assets close to the $1 billion mark, ($839 million in
  2006, according to tax returns), including $327 million in mortgage-backed
  securities.  [3] In other words, TBN has 327 million to buy speculative
  investments, yet daily goes on the air to beg for even more money.

  And where does a large part of that income go?

  Salaries
  1998: In 1998, the Crouches showed a combined income of nearly $600,000... He
  was paid $159,500 a year as president, while she got $165,100 as vice
  president, IRS records show.

      "Crouch's earnings went from $159,500 in 1997 to $262,915 the following
      year. Jan, the organization's vice president, also received a big raise.
      Her earnings more than doubled, going from $159,500 to $321,375 during the
      same time period". [4].

  2008: But it gets worse.. According to Charity Navigator's latest CEO salary
  report which was released in the fall of 2008, and shows how much nonprofit
  leaders are making.

      Paul F. Crouch Sr. as President and Director makes $419,500 a year.

      Janice W. Crouch, as Vice President and Director makes $361,000 a year.

      Paul F. Crouch Jr., as Vice President and Director makes $214,137 a year.

  (Data from the 2010 study is based on the financial data provided on the FYE
  2008 Forms 990 and includes salary, cash bonuses, and expense accounts) [5]

  John Casoria, son of Dorothy Bethany Casoria, Trinity’s station manager and Jan
  Crouch's sister is spokesperson for TBN. His law office, at $164,200 a year, is
  one of TBN's highest-paid independent contractors. According to Casoria...

      "TBN stands out and is different from other non profits in that we're a
      broadcasting entity,” .... “Though we consider ourselves a church, we're a
      501 c-3 and have been so for the last 35 years. Clearly we work in a
      different arena than most other charitable organizations.

      "TBN is the 8th largest owner-operator of TV stations in the world,” he
      continued. "The salaries of these three individuals pales in comparison
      with people in the secular world doing similar work. This has not been not
      a job for them, but a life endeavor, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

      "So when you compare us to other non profits out there feeding children and
      doing disaster relief, it's basically apples and oranges. It's still fruit,
      it's still a nonprofit, but it's a completely different charitable model.”
      [3]

  Ummmm! Perhaps someone needs to tell Casoria that comparing Paul and Jan
  Crouch's salaries and other substantial perks to "people in the secular world
  doing similar work" is little but a red herring. A so called Christian
  organization has the obligation to conduct itself, not according to the
  business or secular world, or even other so called Christian organizations, but
  to Jesus and the apostles.


  The Crouch’s Homes
  Televangelists Jan and Paul Crouch of the Costa Mesa-based Trinity Broadcasting
  Network have purchasedTele-TBN-NewportB a Newport Beach house, in a gated
  community overlooking the Pacific,for close to $5 million, Orange County
  Realtors say. The home was described as [Emphasis Added]


      "a palatial estate with ocean and city views." The Crouches had been living
      in a smaller house in the same neighborhood. The house they bought has six
      bedrooms, nine bathrooms, a billiard room, a climate-controlled wine
      cellar, a sweeping staircase and a crystal chandelier. The three-story,
      nearly 9,500-square-foot house, which has an elevator, also has a six-car
      garage, a tennis court and a pool with a fountain. The house is on slightly
      more than an acre. Jan Crouch had been wanting a bigger yard for her dogs,
      sources said. [6].

  This photograph was taken by Don Kelsen of the Latimes and is carried by The
  Trinity Foundation. (The network also owns one of the houses in the
  background). The mansion in the foreground was recently on the market for $8
  million. "A real estate advertisement said it featured "11,000 square feet of
  opulent European luxury with regulation tennis courts and a rambling terraced
  hillside orchard with view of the blue Pacific." [7] Yet, the Times article
  goes on to say the Crouches present themselves as "thrifty and
  budget-conscious".

      During one telethon, Paul said his personal $50,000 donation to TBN had
      wiped out the family checking account. He often says that he and his wife
      live in the same Newport Beach tract house they bought 33 years ago for
      $38,500. [7]

  However

      nowadays, neither of the Crouches uses that home much. Whether in Southern
      California or on the road, they live in a variety of other TBN-owned homes.
      In all, the network owns 30 residences in California, Texas, Tennessee and
      Ohio — all paid for in cash, property records show. [7]

  Apart from the two Newport Beach mansions, [All Emphasis Added]

      In Costa Mesa, the ministry owns 11 homes in a gated development adjacent
      to Trinity Christian City International.

      In Sky Forest, a resort community in the San Bernardino National Forest,
      the network owns a four-bedroom, five-bath home.

      TBN officials say the real estate purchases were consistent with the
      network's charitable mission, because the homes serve as venues for
      broadcasts and provide lodging for the Crouches and fellow televangelists
      as they travel across the country. The properties have also been good
      investments, they said.

      In Colleyville, Texas, near the network's International Production Center,
      TBN owns nine homes on 66 acres along a country road, a spread called
      Shiloh Ranch. Six horses graze in a pasture; TBN officials say they were
      gifts from admirers. [7]

  According to the Orange County Register.

      Trinity Christian Center of Santa Ana – the nonprofit that runs Trinity
      Broadcasting Network – owns about $54 million of property in Orange County
      – and some $44 million of it is exempt from property taxes, according to
      public documents..

      "The most expensive single-family home Trinity owns is on San Sebastian in
      Newport Beach - 10 rooms, 4.5 bathrooms, pool, 4,583 square feet, valued at
      $2.5 million on county property records. [8]

  The TBN Building
  A June 2, 1998 article by Kim Christensen and Carol McGraw in The Orange County
  Register was entitled
  TBN’s headquarters built on grand scale. It said in part... [All Emphasis
  Added]

      “Trinity Christian City International is a dazzling 65,000-square-foot
      building that houses a new studio, bookstore and theater, and a richly
      appointed suite of offices for TBN founder Paul Crouch. It is an office
      building, but its TV studios are designed to look like the inside of a
      Gothic cathedral, complete with stained-glass windows and padded pews for
      the audience.

      The building was designed and decorated at the direction of the Crouches,
      from the main lobby's baroque marble staircase and 15-foot-high, molded
      polymer statue of Michael the Archangel, to the velvet settees in the
      executive suite.

      When TBN purchased the building for $6 million, it was a drab, brown
      stucco-and-glass box, the former home of the Full Gospel Business Men's
      Fellowship International, and the Crouches planned only minor changes. A
      new $1 million face was put on the building using an "exterior foam
      insulation system," Hubble (whose Fort Worth, Texas, construction company
      put a new facade on the building) said. Balustrades, columns and other
      architectural features were made from styrofoam, then covered with
      fiberglass mesh, coated with plaster and painted.

      The main fountain in front of the building is used for full-immersion
      baptisms and is patterned after one in New York's Central Park. It is fed
      by a small aqueduct the Crouches call "the River of Life." Hubble said it
      cost about $1 million, and landscaping the property tacked on about
      $400,000.

      Much of the interior features gleaming marble floors and intricately
      detailed ceilings. The lobby ceiling is covered with 217 hand-painted
      cherubs, many depicting the faces of TBN employees' children. The cherubs
      on the lobby ceiling were done by portrait artist Jane Garrison, who spent
      10 months on it. She worked atop a scissors lift, a week at a time, eight
      to 10 hours a day, and then went home to Arkansas to rest before resuming.

          "By the end of the week, I kept thinking, 'If I have to climb this
          ladder and do one more cherub ...,' " she said. "But then I'd get down
          and think, 'Yes, I'd like to do another.' "

      Garrison, who charges $3,000 apiece for full-length portraits at her
      Fayetteville studio, would not say how much she was paid for her work at
      TBN.

      She also has been commissioned to do other work at the new building,
      including seven original paintings. Three are “food-related biblical
      paintings” for the dining room in the private executive suite, and a
      Garrison original dominates the center ceiling of the main lobby.

          “Jan wanted cherubs and ribbons, and flowers. But Paul wanted more,”
          she said. “So we agreed on the Second Coming of Christ. He’s on a white
          horse. And three warrior angels are with him in the middle.”

      The exterior features elaborate Corinthian columns, colonial balustrades,
      French wrought iron and Greek colonnades with dental molding and
      egg-and-dart detailing. The faux brass ceilings in the bookstore and
      bathrooms are polished to a mirror finish. Austrian-style drapes plunge
      three stories from ceiling to floor. Everywhere are hand-painted gold
      mouldings, beveled glass and portraits of cherubs.

      The building also features the "Via Dolorosa," where visitors can stroll a
      movie set-like replica of the Jerusalem street over which Christ carried
      his cross to Calvary, complete with thunder and lightning effects.

      A trio of water-spewing lion heads near the main entrance are fashioned
      after those at William K. Vanderbilt's Marble House in Newport, R.I. Frank
      McGervey, a Trabuco Canyon painting contractor who worked on other TBN
      projects, said the new headquarters was one "to die for." He noted that a
      laborious technique was used to apply several coats of paint to interior
      walls, giving them a richness much like fine furniture. [9]. [TOP OF PAGE]


  TBN’s Private Suites.
  A second article (Kim Christensen and Carol McGraw) in The Orange County
  Register was entitled Private suite Is A Sight To Behold, Carpenters Say... 
  [All Emphasis Added]

      Visitors may stroll the manicured grounds, browse the Gold, Frankincense
      and Myrrh Gift Shop and relax in a state-of-the-art Virtual Reality Theater
      to watch high-definition videos of the life of Christ. But what most won't
      see at Trinity Broadcasting Network's new world headquarters is founder
      Paul Crouch's 8,000-square-foot executive suite, which occupies half of the
      top floor of the three-story building and is strictly off-limits to the
      public.

      Behind doors kept locked throughout construction are a wet bar and sauna, a
      personal gym, meticulously handcrafted black walnut woodwork and ornate
      velvet furniture.

      The third-floor quarters will serve as Crouch's executive suite. He
      broadcasts his "Praise the Lord" program from the second floor of the
      building, dubbed Trinity Christian City International. TBN officials
      described the quarters as "standard executive offices" and declined The
      Orange County Register's request to view them. Crouch does not grant
      interviews and would not comment.

      But others who have been inside or helped build the suite say it is more
      befitting a mansion than an office building. "This makes Hearst Castle look
      like a doghouse," said Steve Oliver, a master journeyman carpenter.

      While scores of hired hands worked on the exterior and other public areas
      of the building, Oliver and others in a crew of highly skilled carpenters
      spent several months last year on Crouch's private third-floor quarters.
      The finished product is "really rich looking," said Willa Bouwens-Killeen,
      a Costa Mesa senior planner.

          "The wood is the very best quality, and they used the best craftsmen,"
          she said. "It looks like something you'd expect in a mansion type of
          house rather than offices."

      Work on the third floor was kept "under lock and key," said Oliver, whose
      account was verified by others involved in the project. He said as many as
      40 carpenters worked on the project at any one time, while Richard Hubble,
      who owns a Fort Worth construction company that put a new facade on the
      building, put the number at about two dozen.

      In either scenario, it required a lengthy and expensive process to install
      and finish top-quality black walnut columns and Corinthian columns,
      mantels, egg-and-dart moldings, lion's head inlays and other accouterments.

          "There were probably 25 carpenters on that floor for six months,"
          Hubble said. "When you figure 25 carpenters for six months at the
          California rate of 30 bucks or so an hour, it costs a bunch."

      Adding substantially to the cost of Crouch's quarters were a variety of
      expensive, handcrafted woodwork items, including $825-apiece lions that
      flank the massive fireplace, and an array of columns priced at $1,500 each
      and up. All of the items were crafted from black walnut, said Stephen
      Enkeboll, president of Raymond Enkeboll Designs Architectural Woodcarvings
      in Carson, which caters to upscale clients.

          "It is what is called veneer quality, the highest type of wood," he
          said, declining to disclose how much TBN spent on his company's
          products. Money seemed of little concern, Oliver and others said.

      Doors were custom-made at a carpentry shop set up at the site. Walls were
      straight-lined with sophisticated laser equipment, and woodwork was
      installed in a painstaking fashion that eliminated visible joints or nail
      holes. A separate crew of furniture finishers spent about two months
      staining and polishing the woodwork, Hubble said.

      Throughout the project, Oliver said, if anything was deemed to be less than
      perfect, it was ripped out and discarded. After he spent three weeks
      meticulously straight-lining the walls of a the executive suite dining
      room, Oliver said, TBN officials walked in one day and told him to start
      over.

          "They came in, changed their minds and moved everything over a half an
          inch," he said. "They threw all that work away. There's probably 10
          grand in that, and they threw it all away." The Crouches personally
          inspected the work, Oliver and others said. Jan, in particular, was
          quick to change or discard anything she didn't like, Oliver said.

      "She came through once and was terrorizing everybody," he said. " 'Throw
      this out, throw that out.' You could see the smoke coming out of her." TBN
      officials defended the renovation project and disputed Oliver's contention
      that it is a monument to excess. "I wouldn't say they are lavish," art
      director Doug Marsh said. TBN Vice President Terrence Hickey agreed. "We
      have stayed to the vision God has given us," Hickey said. "We are careful
      with every penny."

      He said the woodwork and other appointments are in keeping with the
      building's overall design theme. Inexpensive, ultramodern furnishings would
      be out of place, he said. "You don't go to IKEA and throw it in there," he
      said. [10]. [TOP OF PAGE]

  
  Joel Osteen and Lakewood Church 
  Tele-Joel-VictoriaOsteen, the "senior pastor" of Lakewood Church in Houston,
  Texas was born on the 5th of March, 1963, son of John Osteen, original founder
  of Lakewood Church. After attending Oral Roberts University in Tulsa, Oklahoma,
  Joel returned to Houston in 1982, and produced John Osteen's televised sermons
  for 17 years, declining any invitation to preach, until January 1999 when his
  father suddenly passed away from a heart attack. After his father's death,
  Osteen preached his first sermon on January 17th of 1999. Two weeks later, he
  was installed as the new senior pastor of Lakewood Church. [11]

  According to his web site, his television ministry reaches 200 million homes
  and, each week, over than one million people download Lakewood’s audio and
  video podcast, making their podcast consistently one of the top five in the
  world. [12]

  Named as one of Barbara Walters' "10 Most Fascinating People of 2006", and
  selected as the "Most Influential Christian in 2006" by the readers of Church
  Report Magazine [11], Osteen's first book Your Best Life Now, was released by
  Time Warner in 2004. It debuted at the top of the New York Times Bestsellers
  List, quickly rising to #1. It remained on the New York Times Bestseller for
  more than 2 years selling more than 4 million copies. [11]

  On July 16, 2005, Lakewood Church relocated from its old building in northeast
  Houston into its new home, a 16,800 seat facility southwest of downtown Houston
  along U.S. Highway 59, which had twice the capacity of its former sanctuary.
  The arena was home to the Houston Rockets when they won two league titles in
  the 1990s and the Houston Comets of the WNBA when they won four.

  What is mind-boggling is that  not only was the church required to pay $11.8
  million in rent in advance for the first 30 years of the lease, but renovated
  the new campus at an estimated cost of $95 million. As said in a 2005 article
  in USA Today [Emphasis AddedTele-LakewoodChurch]


      The facility, which took 15 months and about $75 million to complete,
      features two waterfalls, three gargantuan television screens and a lighting
      system that rivals those found at rock concerts. Two choir lofts with 12
      rows of rich purple pews sit between the waterfalls, accented by live
      foliage.

      Absent, however, is a cross, an image of God or Jesus Christ or any other
      traditional religious symbols. Osteen said his father never displayed such
      symbols and he simply continued the tradition. Instead, the new location
      will feature a larger version of the church's trademark globe, rotating
      slowly behind Osteen as he preaches. [13]

  In 2007, Lakewood reported spending nearly $30 million every year on its
  television ministry. [14]

  A few years later, in March 31, 2010, the Houston City Council, faced with $100
  million shortfall in it’s budget, voted 13-2 to sell the former arena for the
  Houston Rockets to Lakewood church for $7.5 million. [15]

  And how can Osteen and Lakewood church afford all this?

      "Buckets of money -- over $43 million a year gets collected in the church,
      another $30 million or so comes in the mail. It's a cash cow and a family
      business. Osteen's brother, sister and mother are ministers in the church.
      But the real money for Osteen comes from his book sales, which are
      re-packaged versions of his sermons. Your Best Life Now reportedly got a
      $13 million advance" [16]

  And certainly Joel and Victoria Osteen have made good use of all this money...
   

  Osteen's 10.5 million Dollar Home
  In hib book, Your Best Life Now, Osteen talks about how his wife, Victoria, a
  striking, fashionably dressed blonde, wanted to buy a fancy house some years
  before the money started rolling in. He thought it wasn't possible. "But
  Victoria had more faith," he wrote. "She convinced me we could live in an
  elegant home... and several years later, it did come to pass." ... Osteen's
  flourishing Lakewood enterprise brought in $55 million in contributions last
  year, four times the 1999 amount, church officials say”. [17]

  According to an article in the Houston Press, public records show Joel and
  Victoria Osteen's home in Tanglewood is worth more than $1 million dollars.
  [18].

  However that was in 2002. While still holding on to the house in Tanglewood,
  which has since been "valued at $2.9 million", the Osteens have upgraded. A
  July 2010 article in Houston's Daily Digital Magazine, CultureMap, says Joel
  and Victoria Osteen Tele-Osteens-home


      "...and their children moved to a 17,000-square-foot stone mansion in the
      Tall Timbers subdivision in River Oaks. The Osteens' new home is situated
      on 1.86 acres and surrounded by an ornamental fence. The 411: It has six
      bedrooms, six bathrooms, three elevators and five wood-burning fireplaces,
      with a one-bedroom guest house and pool house. The Harris County Appraisal
      District valued it at $10.5 million.

      The Tanglewood house is owned by Joel and Victoria Osteen according to
      Harris County Appraisal District records. The River Oaks home is
      technically owned by the Covenant Trust, which means the Osteens do not
      qualify for a homestead exemption on it. They will pay around $260,000 in
      property taxes on the new home this year. [19] [Emphasis Added]

  The photograph above right is a screen shot of the photograph of Osteen’s home
  on the CultureMap site.

  Culture map adds that Osteen hasn't drawn a salary from the church since 2005.
  His "income comes from best-selling books and related products, such as
  calendars, daybooks and inspirational pamphlets". [20]


  Cotton Candy or Occult Concepts
  The Rev. Michael Horton, professor of theology at Westminster Seminary in
  Escondido, California, calls Osteen's gospel a "cotton candy gospel", adding
  that Osteen's "core message is God is nice, you're nice, be nice". He goes on
  to say that "Osteen tells only half the story of the Bible, focusing on the
  good news without talking about sin, suffering and redemption" and says it is
  heresy "to say that God is our resource for getting our best life now". [16]

  And this is certainly true.

  On June 20, 2005, Osteen sat for an interview with Larry King on CNN’s The
  Larry King Show. King introduced Osteen as “evangelism’s hottest rising star,
  pastor for the biggest congregation in the United States.” And what does he
  preach? Osteen said he doesn't get into controversial subjects like sin and
  judgment. False religions such as Islam, Hinduism, and Judaism don't concern
  him. He doesn't really know who's going to hell and who isn't" [Details].
  Scroll down to Joel Osteen’s interview with Larry King, where he admits he
  doesn’t talk about sin! Is it any wonder he has 40,000 + members in his church?

  Unfortunately Osteen's message is FAR more dangerous than "cotton candy" and
  the heresy of making religion about us instead of about God. The fact is Osteen
  got very rich peddling concepts from the occult world.  Osteen's first book,
  Your Best Life Now, was released in October 2004, just two or three short years
  after he read Positive Imaging:The Powerful Way to Change Your Life by Norman
  Vincent Peale. In it, Osteen uses exactly the same words used by Norman Vincent
  Peale, who in turn got the expression from Napoleon Hill, who got the
  expression from his “imaginary” (read demonic) council of seven men. [DETAILS]

  Note that the taxes on Osteen's "mansion" for one year is  about the total cost
  of most people's homes (depending on the area of the country). But he will come
  out with one more idiotic, dangerous, Biblically unsound book which will be
  bought by hundreds of thousands... which ought to take care of those taxes.

           [See The Prosperity Doctrine ..Does God Want Us To Be Rich?]


  Osteen and Hurricane Katrina
  By the way... much is made of the fact that Joel Osteen's church gave a million
  dollars to the victims of Hurricane Katrina and one can certainly appreciate
  him doing so. However with an average weekly attendance of some 43,500 people,
  his church's annual budget is $70 million [21]. [TOP OF PAGE]

                                         
                                The Investigation:

  In November 2007 Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa [Senate Finance Committee]
  launched an investigation into the financial dealings of six TV evangelists. In
  his words...

      “I’m following up on complaints from the public and news coverage regarding
      certain practices at six ministries,” Grassley said in a statement. “The
      allegations involve governing boards that aren’t independent and allow
      generous salaries and housing allowances and amenities such as private jets
      and Rolls-Royces.

      “I don’t want to conclude that there’s a problem, but I have an obligation
      to donors and the taxpayers to find out more. People who donated should
      have their money spent as intended and in adherence with the tax code.”
      [22]

  A New York Times Article dated November 7th 2007 mentions other ministries
  being investigated. Grassley's letters, requesting answers about their
  expenses, executive compensation and amenities, including use of fancy cars and
  private jets, also went to:

      The Rev. Creflo A. Dollar Jr. and his wife, Taffi, of World Changers Church
      International, based in College Park, Ga

      Paula and Randy White. Without Walls International Church and Paula White
      Ministries in Tampa, Fla., [Mr. Grassley wants them to document clothing
      expenses and any cosmetic surgery from 2004 to the present].

      Benny Hinn of World Healing Center Church, based in Grapevine, Tex. Mr.
      Hinn is being asked how he handles cash collected on his overseas crusades
      and how much he spent on hotels and food for himself and his staff members
      during layovers on his trips from 2001 to the present.

      Joyce Meyer, who with her husband, David, runs Joyce Meyer Ministries from
      Fenton, Mo., and who is popular especially with women for her no-nonsense
      brand of self-help.

      Bishop Eddie L. Long of New Birth Missionary Baptist Church in Lithonia,
      Ga., a megachurch in the Atlanta suburbs.

      Kenneth and Gloria Copeland of Kenneth Copeland Ministries of Newark, Tex.
      [23] [24]

  The Results of The Investigation... All reports are linked from THIS PAGE ...
  http://finance.senate.gov/newsroom/ranking/release/?id=
  5fa343ed-87eb-49b0-82b9-28a9502910f7.

  [TOP OF PAGE]

  
  Kenneth Copeland
  Tele-Ken-GloriaCopelandborn December 6, 1936 was once a recording artist on the
  Imperial Records label [25], a pilot for Oral Roberts, later enrolled in Oral
  Roberts University in Tulsa, Oklahoma in spring of 1967... "he was made part of
  the flight crew attending all the tent meetings and crusades. It was during
  this time that he was learning exponentially through on-the-job training". [26]
  [I have also heard that he was also a member of the Oral Roberts University
  Board of Regents, but can not confirm this one way, or another]..

  As founder of Kenneth Copeland Ministries he, in effect took over from Kenneth
  Hagin as "father" of the Tele-Copeland-JetWord-Faith Movement, a
  'Christianized' version of the occult practice of creative visualization. He is
  one of the movements leading spokespersons, responsible for spreading most of
  the Faith movement's unbiblical teachings, via his innumerable books, crusades,
  and international outreach centers.

  Kenneth Copeland's "18-thousand square foot home valued at $6.3 million" and
  his "private jets" are just some of the reasons that Kenneth Copeland
  Ministries (KCM) was included in Senator Grassley’s investigation. [27]

  However, it soon became very clear that Copeland's Eagle Mountain International
  Church (EMIC), and three of the other organizations under investigation, did
  not intend to cooperate in any way with the Committee. On July 7, 2008 Times
  Online reported that

      “Televangelist Kenneth Copeland refuses to render unto taxman”

      “It is not yours, it is God's, and you are not going to get it.” So saith
      Kenneth Copeland, the television evangelist, when asked to submit his
      ministry's private financial records to Washington” [28]

  In fact some used "strong tactics to prevent former employees from speaking
  about the organizations, even to Committee staff".

      Several former employees of EMIC/KCM indicated that EMIC/KCM used
      intimidation in an attempt to keep informants from speaking to the
      Committee. Former employees were sincerely afraid to provide statements for
      fear of being sued since they signed confidentiality agreements.  Employees
      were contacted by EMIC/KCM attorneys after the initiation of the Committee
      investigation and reminded that they signed a confidentiality agreement
      agreeing not to disclose any information concerning EMIC/KCM. [29]

  One former employee said, "The Copelands employ guerrilla tactics to keep their
  employees silent. We are flat out told and threatened that if we talk, God will
  blight our finances, strike our families down, and pretty much afflict us with
  everything evil and unholy.  Rather, God will allow Satan to do those things to
  us because we have stepped out from under His umbrella of protection, by
  "touching God's anointed Prophet".  Further, employees are encouraged to shun
  and treat badly anyone who dares speak out.” [29]

  Speaking of the four organizations that did not cooperate, providing either
  incomplete responses or none at all, an internal memo says the investigators

      "...obtained information about these churches from public sources and third
      party informants.  Informants were either current or former officers,
      directors, and key employees, current or former members, or watch dog
      groups. Overviews of each of the four are attached. [30]

  On January 6th, 2011, Senator Grassley issued a press release that summarized
  his offices findings to date regarding the Senate Finance Committee’s (SFC)
  investigation of six televangelists. A 28 page report included the following
  findings. Apparently God's money, as Copeland puts it, includes a sizable share
  for the Copelands…  [All Emphasis Added

  From The Report

  Salaries
  An insider states that Kenneth Copeland no longer receives a salary from EMIC
  budget, but it is not known if one is received from KCM. Apparently, despite
  being the same legal entity, EMIC and KCM have separate operating budgets.  

  Gloria Copeland's last known salary was $400,000 and that was in the early
  2000s. Kenneth and Gloria both receive “honorariums” when they go to speak at
  churches, conventions and crusades that are not sponsored by KCM. The normal
  amount received by each is $10,000 and they, at times, will also receive a
  percentage of the offering collected by the sponsoring church or ministry.
  Kenneth and Gloria also received royalties from their music and books.  The
  figures noted are prior to 2005. 


  "Parsonage"
  In its response to the Committee, the Church acknowledged that it provides a
  parsonage to Kenneth and Gloria and a housing allowance to John but did not
  provide any further detail.  However, insiders and the TrTele-Copeland-Tarrant
  inity Foundation state that Kenneth and Gloria reside in a house in Tarrant
  County, Texas.  

  A review of the Tarrant County Appraisal District records indicates the
  following. An 18,280 square foot residence owned by EMIC was built in 1999. 
  The house is situated on a lake on approximately 25 acres and receives
  tax-exempt status.  As of tax year 2008, the property was valued at $6,249,000
  .   

  According to a third party informant, the "parsonage" has a sweeping spiral
  staircase and a bridge that spans across the living room and connects the two
  sides of the house. It also has crystal chandeliers and, according to Gloria
  Copeland, doors that came from a castle. The parsonage has numerous rooms
  including a work room where cleaning ladies did laundry, ironed and performed
  other miscellaneous chores.

  The Copeland's bedroom has a huge drop-down ceiling projector and screen. There
  are three car garages at each end of the house where the Copelands stored
  motorcycles, cars and a golf cart. The property also has a boat dock that has
  three slips. All three slips are generally filled with boats so the Copelands
  keep their ski-boat in one of the airplane hangars.

  Insiders indicated that all the expenses related to the upkeep of the parsonage
  are paid for by the Church, including the household staff. EMIC/KCM employees
  are used to maintain the property and perform miscellaneous duties such as
  arranging the Copelands exercise equipment, moving furniture and setting up the
  Christmas tree.


  Private AirportTele-Copeland-Airport
  in the “Use of Ministry Assets” section of this summary. Kenneth Copeland
  Airport - This is a private airport owned by Kenneth Copeland Ministries. As of
  December 6, 2010, there were nine aircraft based at the airport: four single
  engine, three multi-engine and two jet airplanes.

  According to the Church response, “the Church owns five aircraft that it uses
  in connection with its tax-exempt religious purposes, including worldwide
  ministry conventions,..” The fleet consisted of a) a 1962 Beech H-18 twin, b) a
  1973 Cessna 421B Golden Eagle, c) a 1975 Cessna 500 Citation, d) a 1998 Cessna
  550 Citation Bravo and e) a 2005 Cessna 750 Citation C.  The Church also states
  that any personal use is added to the Copeland's Form W-2.  


  Travel and Shopping
  A former ministry employee stated Gloria Copeland used a jet to fly to Naples,
  Florida, to go shopping. She would purchase clothing, sculptures and home
  furnishings. John Copeland and ministry employees, Craig Atnip, Steve

  Poteet and some others used a jet to take hunting trips. Kenneth Copeland used
  to travel back and forth to Arkansas to see a chiropractor and to visit his
  cabin there.  The Copeland family also flew to Colorado to their home in
  Steamboat Springs from time to time.

   In October of 2007, Brett Shipp with Dallas-based television station WFAA
  conducted an investigative report regarding the Copeland?s personal use of the
  ministry jet. Based on Shipp's report, the Copelands traveled often to
  Steamboat Springs, CO, and took hunting trips to southern Texas. The report
  also showed the Copelands taking extended stays in Hawaii while traveling
  across the Pacific.

  Copeland originally told donors that then 20 million dollar jet would only be
  used for EMIC/KCM business. However, in the response to the Committee, the
  church acknowledged that there was some personal use of the ministry jet but
  the Church did not provide any details.

  And this is by no means everything.. Read the full report "Senate Finance
  Committee, Minority Staff Review of Eagle Mountain International Church d/b/a
  Kenneth Copeland Ministries. (Prepared by Lynda F. Simmons") [Copy and Paste
  either of these links into your browser]...

     http://cbsdallas.files.wordpress.com/2011/01/emic-copeland-01-5-11.pdf OR
             http://finance.senate.gov/newsroom/ranking/download/?id=
                       d12db357-ce3f-49f8-babb-4134ff994e50

  An Associated Press article dated July 26, 2008 says

      Newark, Texas - Here in the gentle hills of north Texas, televangelist
      Kenneth Copeland has built a religious empire teaching that God wants his
      followers to prosper.

      Over the years, a circle of Copeland's relatives and friends have done just
      that, The Associated Press has found. They include the brother-in-law with
      a lucrative deal to broker Copeland's television time, the son who acquired
      church-owned land for his ranching business and saw it more than quadruple
      in value, and board members who together have been paid hundreds of
      thousands of dollars for speaking at church events.

      While Copeland insists that his ministry complies with the law, independent
      tax experts who reviewed information obtained by the AP through interviews,
      church documents and public records have their doubts. The web of companies
      and non-profits tied to the televangelist calls the ministry's integrity
      into question, they say.

      "There are far too many relatives here," said Frances Hill, a University of
      Miami law professor who specializes in nonprofit tax law. "There's too much
      money sloshing around and too much of it sloshing around with people with
      overlapping affiliations and allegiances by either blood or friendship or
      just ties over the years. There are red flags all over these
      relationships."

      Kenneth Copeland Ministries is organized under the tax code as a church, so
      it gets a layer of privacy not afforded large secular and religious
      nonprofit groups that must disclose budgets and salaries. [31]

  Pastors' pay must be "reasonable" under the federal tax code. However
  "reasonable" according to the Copelands is what most of us would consider a
  very hefty amount, more suitable to the hugely overpaid leeches on Wall Street.
  But then again what's the difference? Leeches on Wall Street.. Leeches in the
  Church.

      The ministry also owns an airport capable of accepting jet landings, leases
      land for Mr Copeland's cattle and horses, and also leases land to the
      family so that it can operate oil and gas wells.” [32] [TOP OF PAGE]

  
  Creflo (Augustus) Dollar:
  Tele-Creflo-Taffi-Dollaris founder and senior pastor of World Changers Church
  International (WCCI) in College Park, Georgia, which serves nearly 30,000
  members; World Changers Church-New York, which hosts over 6,000 worshippers
  each week; and a host of satellite churches, in several locations around the
  country. [33]

  Dollar has no degree in theology, but bases much of his prosperity message on
  the teachings of friend and spiritual mentor Kenneth Copeland... In 1998,
  Dollar was awarded an honorary Doctor of Divinity from Oral Roberts University,
  which is hardly surprising. He is just one more in a long line of Christian
  scavengers who relentlessly attack the idea that Christians should limit
  material possessions, and who teach congregants to say, "I want my stuff."

  As said in a 2006 New York Times piece.. [Emphasis Added]

      Mr. Dollar, whose Rolls-Royces, private jets, million-dollar Atlanta home
      and $2.5 million Manhattan apartment, furnish proof to his followers of the
      validity of his teachings, is a leading apostle of what is known as the
      "prosperity gospel." [34]

  Actually, based on the state of Georgia real estate records, as of January 15,
  2006, the Dollars owned two million dollar homes.

      "... 4695 Hamden Forest Trail in Atlanta and 1811 Sandy Creek in
      Fayetteville. According to Fulton Tele-Dollar-Housecounty real estate
      records, the property at 4695 Hamden Forest Trail, Atlanta, Georgia was
      conveyed to the Dollars from WCCI in 2000. Committee staff was unable to
      determine if any consideration was paid by the Dollars to WCCI at the time
      this conveyance. Based on Fulton County real property records, from the
      date of this conveyance in July of 2000 until October of 2003, there were
      no mortgages on this property. 

      According to Fayette County real estate records, the second property
      located at 1811 Sandy Creek, Fayetteville, Georgia, was conveyed to the
      Dollars from WCCI in 2004. On the date of this conveyance, the Dollars
      executed a note to pay WCCI $2,065,000. [35]

  The New York Times article also tells the story of The Andersons, who live in
  the Bronx and are "struggling financially".

      A few weeks ago, the couple, who have two young children, had no money to
      buy groceries. But they believe what their pastor, the Rev. Creflo A.
      Dollar Jr., said on this recent Saturday night about the offering time:
      "It's opportunity for prosperity." So when the offering buckets at World
      Changers Church come around "Troy and Cheryal Anderson are eager to give
      the Lord his due. They wave their blue offering envelope overhead, as all
      around them worshipers whoop and holler their praises to God. Inside the
      envelope is 10 percent of the weekly pay Mr. Anderson takes home as an
      electrician's apprentice - he earns about $30,000 a year - and a little
      more for the church's building fund. [34]

       [See Section The Prosperity Doctrine ..Does God Want Us To Be Rich?]

  Just how much money do Creflo and Taffi Dollar have?

      The ministry's income is unavailable, but newspaper accounts say the
      ministry paid $18 million in cash for his new 8,000-seat World Changers
      Church International on the southern edge of Atlanta. He flies to speaking
      engagements across the nation and Europe in a $5 million private jet and
      drives a black Rolls-Royce. and travels in a $5 million private jet.
      Dollar's ministry became a focus of a court case involving boxer Evander
      Holyfield in 1999. The lawyer for Holyfield's ex-wife estimated that the
      fighter gave Dollar's ministry $7 million. Dollar refused to testify in the
      case. [36]

  The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, Mar. 5, 2000 says this [All Emphasis Added]

      The Rev. Creflo Dollar Jr. has unabashedly embraced his name by building a
      religious empire on the message that his brand of piety leads to
      prosperity. He drives a black Rolls-Royce, flies to speaking engagements
      across the nation and Europe in a $5 million private jet and lives in a $1
      million home behind iron gates in an upscale Atlanta neighborhood... The
      World Changers campus sits on a slight hill... Inside the church is a lobby
      befitting a five-star hotel. Chairs are scattered about on baby blue carpet
      thick enough to muffle the sound of the stadium-size crowd arriving for a
      Sunday service... There are no visible traditional Christian symbols - no
      cross, no image of Jesus, no stained-glass windows...Dollar lives in a $1
      million home owned by the church in the Guilford Forest subdivision in
      southwest Atlanta. World Changers purchased another $1 million home on 27
      acres in Fayette County in December. The church has amassed a fortune in
      real estate, mostly in College Park... [37]

  D.J. Lett who has attended World Changers for seven years, said it is not true
  that the church refuses to help non-tithers.

      Tithers simply "have priority," she said. People are not allowed to touch
      Dollar during services, she said, simply because "the anointing is flowing
      at that point." She said the church purchased a Rolls-Royce for Dollar's
      use because "he deserves the best". [37]

  By the way, as reported on John Mark Ministries...

       Dollar’s wife, Taffi, introduces her husband as one who talks “face to
      face with God, like Moses.” She warns that “every tongue that rises up
      against” her husband will “be struck down.” [38]
       

      InPlainSite.org Note.. The word Anointing has become arguably the most
  overused, overworked, misunderstood, misinterpreted term in the Pentecostal and
                          Charismatic arenas. See Details
                                          

  Black Celebrity Gossip (MWZA) carries yet another photograph of the interior of
  Creflo Dollar's house. [39] [TOP OF PAGE]

  
  Paula And Randy White
  Tele-Paula-Randy-WhitePaula and Randy White married in 1989, and moved to
  Tampa, Florida, where they started South Tampa Christian Center in 1991.
  (renamed Without Walls International Church in 1997.) Apparently her popularity
  sky rocketed (particularly among black women) when she met Bishop T.D. Jakes,
  pastor of the Dallas mega church called “Potter's House”, who invited her to
  speak at his Woman Thou Art Loosed Conference in 2000. (More about T.D. Jakes
  further down). White launched her television ministry a year later.

  Excerpts from a May 20, 2007 Tampa Tribune article [All Emphasis Added],

      The Whites' church, founded in 1991, became Without Walls International.
      Its motto: "the perfect church for people who are not." It is ranked one of
      the largest and fastest-growing independent churches in the country,
      according to Church Growth Today, a consulting company.

      As it grew - at one time offering more than 200 outreach missions, programs
      for poor, urban children and single moms in need of job training - so did
      the Whites' perks. They travel in a $1.9 million business jet. They own a
      home they purchased for $2.1 million on Bayshore Boulevard and a $3.5
      million Trump Tower condo in New York. Randy rents a waterfront villa in
      Malibu, California. [40]

  [Note: Trump Tower, (named for its owner Donald Trump), is a 68-story mixed-use
  skyscraper located at 721 Fifth Avenue, at the corner of East 56th Street on
  the Upper East Side of Tele-Trump-AtriumManhattan, New York City. There is a
  five-level atrium in the lobby that is crowned with a skylight and contains
  shops, a café, a seven-story waterfall that flows over rose, peach, pink and
  orange Breccia Perniche marble, and a pedestrian bridge that crosses over the
  waterfall’s pool. The Atrium is "a showcase for 40 purveyors of super luxury
  wares such as Loewe of Madrid, Asprey's of London and the jewelers, Cartier,
  Harry Winston and Buccellati" [41].  To see a split view of the waterfall, on
  the left, and the café, on the right, Click HERE]


      Most of the couple's personal income comes from private businesses,
      including a real estate company, sales of nutritional supplements and
      speaking engagements, he said. Since 2005, two of their businesses have
      sold $871,000 in books, DVDs, CDs and clothing to the church, according to
      the recent audit.

      While her husband commutes to California, Paula is also on the go, a
      sought-after speaker at Christian programs, women's retreats and success
      seminars. She just launched a health and fitness program, "10 Commandments
      of Health and Wellness," and in July, she'll launch her "Life by Design"
      workshops across the street from Madison Square Garden. Her companion book,
      "You're All That: Discovering God's Design on Your Life," comes out in
      October.

      Without Walls, including its Lakeland campus and Paula's broadcast
      ministry, took in $35 million in tithes and offerings last year, according
      to a recent audit by Lewis, Birch & Ricardo CPAs. The audit was posted
      online last week - the first public accounting in the church's history -
      after The Tampa Tribune requested a copy.

      How much of the revenue goes to the Whites, the couple won't say. The audit
      lists more than $5.5 million in salaries for 2006. The church declined to
      say how many employees were on the payroll.

      In January, the couple arrived for a service in their blue Mercedes sedan.
      They entered the sanctuary, a former warehouse at 2511 N. Grady Ave.,
      watched over by a security contingent of solemn, beefy men wearing
      sunglasses and communication devices. Surveillance cameras kept watch from
      all corners. [40]

  The Senate Finance Committee, Minority Staff Review of Without Walls
  International Church includes the following information.

      Parsonage/Housing Allowance
      According to Hillsborough County property records, from 2002 until their
      divorce in August of 2007, the Whites owned 4301 Bayshore Boulevard, Tampa,
      FL, an 8,072 sq. ft. home located in the very prestigious area of
      Bayshore.  The residence has a waterfront view of Tampa Bay (see pictures
      below).  According to Hillsborough County records, the 2008 market value of
      the home is $2,681,211.  The Whites purchased the property in 2002 and
      borrowed $2 million dollars from Suntrust Bank. An insider told Committee
      staff that an accounting firm hired by WWIC told the Whites to purchase the
      largest house they could find. In spring of 2003 the Whites hired a pool
      contractor to put a new in ground Tele-Bayshore-Arialconcrete pool and spa
      at this residence.

      A recent aerial view of the residence indicates the pool was completed.  As
      of December 2008, the registered owner of the Bayshore Boulevard home is
      Randy White. [Hillsborough County Property Appraiser]

      According to an insider, Randy and Paula White also purchased a $3.5
      million condo in Trump Tower in New York City. The total cost of the condo
      was $3.5 million, however, only $2,625,000 was financed so it appears the
      down payment was $925,000. [NYC Department of Finance, Office of The City
      Register]

      WWIC did not provide any information related to possible housing allowances
      being paid for the residence on Bayshore Drive and the Trump Tower condo.
      However, an insider familiar with WWIC finances stated that housing
      allowances for both residences were paid from WWIC/PWM funds.

  The rest of the report can be read HERE

  Tele-Bayshore

  Appearance: Tele-PaulaWhite


      The trappings are physical as well. Both the Whites have undergone cosmetic
      surgery, seeming to grow younger over the past five years.

      "We're on television, and you've got to look the part," Randy said....[40]
      The Part?

  Funky, Flawed, Edgy...

      Randy seems to relish the role of funky, flawed and edgy preacher. He
      admits that he doesn't pray before meals, bears several tattoos and enjoys
      wine. He said strip club owner Joe Redner should have been elected to the
      Tampa City Council in November ("He would have been good for this city"),
      and his gun collection includes an AK-47 automatic weapon.

      "Guns are a good investment," he said.

      In January 2005, he was featured on the cover of Makes and Models Magazine,
      a glossy publication devoted to exotic cars, motorcycles and scantily clad
      female models. Associate editor Rodney Burrell, then a church member, wrote
      a glowing story about Randy called "Riding for Souls." Although putting
      Randy on the cover - he stood posed next to his wife's Mercedes SL55,
      valued at more than $100,000 - was Burrell's idea, the church had to buy
      $7,500 worth of magazines for the privilege. [40]

  ...And Dishonest?

      In his autobiography, "Without Walls," and on a 2002 Web profile, Randy
      said he enrolled at the former Lee College in Cleveland, Tenn., and earned
      a bachelor's degree in ministerial studies and a master's in divinity. He
      said he was awarded an honorary doctorate in humane letters from Virginia
      State University in Petersburg, Va.

      Representatives from both schools said he did not receive degrees there,
      though Lee confirmed he took two classes.

      According to documents Randy gave the Tribune in April, he received a
      doctorate of humane letters from Commonwealth Assistance Foundation
      Institute of International Studies in Alexandria, Va., in May 1993. An
      in-depth Internet search found no mention of the school. There is no
      telephone listing for it.

      Randy does have a bachelor's degree in theology from the International
      Bible Institute and Seminary, a correspondence school in Orlando. [40]

  Unpaid Bills

      Since 2000, court records show five business deals that soured after the
      Whites refused to pay.

      Jacqueline Knight, who runs a Tampa public relations and marketing company,
      said, "We've moved on and we're friends again" after she placed a lien on
      the church for $16,782 in unpaid bills in April 2002. She was paid an
      undisclosed sum before it got to court.

      Interior designer Charles Cox, also in Tampa, is still fuming.

      County Court Judge Paul Huey ordered the church to pay Cox-Feivelson
      Antiques and Design Gallery $10,217 for unpaid bills in November.

      "They made no attempt to resolve the problem to avoid legal action, not
      even a phone call," he said. "I expect more of high-end clients, especially
      Christian ones." [40]

  Birthdays and Bentleys
  Paula sent her "spiritual father" T.D. Jakes a black convertible Bentley for
  his 50th birthday in June 2007

      ... for his 50th birthday in June, White sent Jakes a black convertible
      Bentley. It was intended to be quiet gift, White said, but an overzealous
      member of Jakes' ministry shouted out the news at the retail show.

      "Some people thought 'Why would you do that?' " White later explained,
      saying that Jakes is her spiritual father. "I thought, 'Well, why wouldn't
      I? That's not even an option." [42]

  Trump and Tyra
  On October 4, 2006, Paula White was a guest on the Tyra Banks show in an
  episode concerning promiscuity. I have to wonder why Tyra refers to Paula White
  as "A woman that I look up to, and my dear friend and personal life coach"
  [Emphasis Added]. [43]

  October 16, 2006 broadcast of her daily television program Paula Today, she
  introduced her two guests with the words...

      "If you want to change the way you live, change your thinking. I want them
      to bring their wisdom to you today, give people tools to really transform
      their lives." And then the camera panned over to two men, co-authors of the
      book, "Why We Want You to be Rich": Robert Kiyosaki and Donald Trump.

  Kiyosaki is author of Rich Dad, Poor Dad with over 26 million copies in print,
  while we all know Trump, "an American business magnate, socialite, author, and
  television personality. He is the Chairman and CEO of the Trump Organization, a
  US-based real-estate developer.

  Trump is also the founder of Trump Entertainment Resorts, which operates
  numerous casinos and hotels across the world. Trump's extravagant lifestyle and
  outspoken manner have made him a celebrity for years". [Wikipedia] He is also
  host and executive producer of an obnoxious reality show..The Apprentice.
  Besides which the name Trump, has in the last few years become an
  internationally recognized symbol of New York City as mecca for the world's
  super rich.

  And here he was, on a so called Christian television program, to share his
  worldly wisdom with all of us. To teach us how to become rich. [44]


  Financial Turmoil
  On November 6, 2008, the Tampa Bay Online published an article entitled
  Financial Walls Closing In On Church. It said in part...

      For months, there have been signs of financial struggles at Without Walls.
      In August, the church's controller resigned citing serious concerns,
      according to a copy of his resignation letter obtained by The Tampa
      Tribune. Church accountant Camillo Gargano wrote in the Aug. 28 letter that
      the ministry was in "turmoil."

          "Handling of finances by upper management is contrary with my fiduciary
          responsibility," it states. Management didn't seem bothered by the
          financial problems, and used "bullying, excessive force and verbal
          abuse as a management style," Gargano wrote. "Not only is it
          unconscionable for me to work in such a hostile environment, but it is
          also physically and mentally debilitating to work under such stressful
          circumstances," he wrote.

      Gargano said he later submitted a second, less-critical letter at the
      request of church staffers.

      He resigned after Randy White ordered him to pay White's $24,000 American
      Express bill, even though it would mean the ministry couldn't make payroll
      for the week, Gargano said in a September interview. Part of the credit
      card bill was a $13,000 payment for mirrors installed in the church. The
      rest included personal expenses that White told Gargano he would pay back
      to the ministry, the controller said.

      White sent text messages to Gargano insisting he pay the credit card bill.
      Gargano saved the messages.

      Gargano, who attended church elsewhere, said during his 17 months employed
      there he constantly scrambled to find money to pay salaries and bills, and
      that little or no money went for ministerial work. The church owed vendors
      $400,000 by late August, he said. Several vendors reached by the Tribune
      declined comment.

      In September, the church released a statement saying it disputed Gargano's
      version of events, but did not elaborate. The controller resigned his
      position the same month the church defaulted on the loan. [45]


  Divorce:
  On Thursday, August 23, 2007, Randy and Paula White announced to their
  congregation that they would divorce.

  According to The Christian Post, Paula White says the divorce was amicable, and
  her husband, Randy White, agreed to take the responsibility [46]

  However according to blackchristiannews.com "Without Walls sputtered without
  her" [47]

  The church shrunk drastically and found itself having faced foreclosure, with
  their bank demanding immediate repayment of a $12 million loan on the property
  last November. [48]

      The Whites' divorce shattered the image of a power couple, unified by faith
      and a shared sense of purpose, and the church struggled to fill its
      4,000-seat sanctuary. At their peak, the Whites preached a "prosperity
      gospel" and enjoyed a lavish lifestyle, expensive homes and cars - even a
      private jet - but the church's finances bottomed out after its founders
      split. Then a congressional investigation into several ministries cross the
      country challenged the church's nonprofit status, amid questions about how
      the Whites were spending the millions of dollars Without Walls was
      collecting. [47]

                   [Also See May Christians Divorce & Re-Marry?]

  Paula White returned to the church as its senior pastor in July 2009. [TOP OF
  PAGE]

  
  Benny Hinn (Toufik Benedictus Hinn)
  Tele-Benny-HinnAbout: Hinn was born in Jaffa, in 1952, in the then newly
  established state of Israel. His family emigrated to Canada soon after the 1967
  Arab-Israeli 'The Six-Day War'. In later life, heavily influenced by
  evangelists Kathryn Kuhlman and  Aimee Semple Mcpherson, he began claiming that
  God was using him as a conduit for healings, and began holding healing services
  in the Orlando Christian Center, which he founded in 1963. Not long after that
  his so called "miracle crusades" began to be held at large stadiums and
  auditoriums across the country.

  During the early 1990s he launched a television show called This Is Your Day, a
  large part of which is devoted to his crusades.. Hinn hosts the show, which is
  broadcast several times a week in the United States by TBN (Paul Crouch, is one
  of Hinn's most outspoken defenders and allies), Daystar, Revelation TV, Grace
  TV, The God Channel, etc to an estimated four million followers. According to
  Hinn's web site, This Is Your Day is "seen across the United States and around
  the world in more than 190 nations" [49]

  In 1999, he stepped down as pastor of the Orlando Christian Center, moving his
  ministry's administrative headquarters to Grapevine, Texas, a suburb of Fort
  Worth, while hosting This Is Your Day from a television studio in Orange
  County, California. He lives in Dana Point, a wealthy coastal community in
  southern Orange County even after Suzanne Hinn, his wife of 30 years filed
  divorce papers in February 2010, which, by the way listed three recent Southern
  California addresses for the family [50]


  "A Preacher's Life".
  Hinn is founder, chairman, president and CEO of Benny Hinn Ministries (BHM)
  and  lives with his wife and three children in a multimillion-dollar oceanfront
  mansion near the Ritz-Carlton hotel in Dana Point. He travels the globe in his
  ministry's plane, named Dove One. And how can he afford to do all this?

  The audited financial statements of Benny Hinn Ministries for 2006, which were
  provided to the Finance Committee, but are not posted on the Ministries‘ web
  site, show total revenue and support of $97.93 million. However, in March 2005,
  Ministry Watch, issued a Donor Alert against the ministry, urging donors to
  prayerfully consider withholding contributions to Benny Hinn Ministries/World
  Outreach Church (BHM). [51]

  On March 6, 2005, NBC Dateline aired a segment, entitled A Preacher's Life, on
  Benny Hinn. The segment was years in the making and included the use of hidden
  cameras, hidden identities, and visits to numerous “healing” crusades. Apart
  from the not surprising findings that Hinn manipulates individuals, and
  preaches a self-serving prosperity theology message at the so called "miracle
  crusades", the program also include the following revelations... [All Emphasis
  Added

      Hinn’s salary is somewhere between half a million and a million dollars per
      year. He also gets royalties from the sales of his books;

      Personal perks for Hinn, family and his entourage include a $10 million
      seaside mansion; a privateTele-Hinn-home jet with annual operating costs of
      about $1.5 million; a Mercedes SUV and convertible, each valued at about
      $80,000;

      What the church termed “layovers” between crusades included hotel bills
      ranging from $900 per night to royal suites that cost almost $3,000 for one
      night’s stay. Layover locations included Hawaii, Cancun, London, Milan and
      other exotic locations.

      Beverly Hills shopping sprees;

      Receipts showing Hinn’s daughter receiving $1,300 in petty cash; her
      boyfriend getting $2,550 for babysitting; $23,000 in cash dispersed to Hinn
      and his wife; and, $25,000 in cash for expenses for a crusade – 30 minutes
      away from Hinn’s home; [52]

  William Lobdell, a Times staff writer who covers religion, was told of the
  founder of the Dallas-based Trinity Foundation, Ole E Anthony, whose operatives
  [All Emphasis Added]

      ...struck dumpster pay dirt five years ago in south Florida when they found
      a travel itinerary for Benny Hinn, the Trinity Broadcasting Network's
      superstar faith healer who has filled sports arenas with ailing believers
      seeking miracles cures. Hinn's itinerary included first-class tickets on
      the Concorde from New York to London ($8,850 each) and reservations for
      presidential suites at pricey European hotels ($2,200 a night). A news
      story, including footage of Hinn and his associates boarding the jet, ran
      on CNN's "Impact."

      In addition, property records and videos supplied by Trinity investigators
      led to CNN and Dallas Morning News coverage of another Hinn controversy:
      fund-raising for a $30-million healing center in Dallas that has yet to be
      built. [53]

  According to a June article in The Dallas Morning News, shortly after Hinn
  announced his move to Texas, he said God had told him to build a "World Healing
  Center," and Hinn appealed for money. As much as $30 million was collected but,
  apparently God changed His mind since the center was never built. In April 2000
  , Hinn told Trinity Broadcasting Network's Paul Crouch, "I'm putting all the
  money we have in the ministry to get out there and preach. The day (to build
  the healing center) will come. I'm in no hurry; neither is God."

  When the NBC Dateline team checked in Mexico, more than a year-and-a-half
  later, they

      could find no sign of any construction. But the Hinn web site kept
      promising that construction would be finished in, “a few short months.”
      That was news to the local official in charge of construction in the town,
      who told us the Hinn ministry hadn’t even been issued a building permit
      yet. What we did find, however, was this sign — curiously not in Spanish,
      but English — attached to a house the ministry called it’s ‘temporary
      orphanage,’ which appeared to be empty. The Hinn Web site continued to
      solicit donations”. [54]

  But, about April 2000, Hinn's ministry began building a 58,000 square-foot
  office building in Irving. A few months after that, in August 2000, a holding
  company that is a subsidiary of Hinn's ministry began building a "parsonage"
  ... a $3 million, 7,200-square foot oceanfront home, in Dana Point, Calif.

      December that revealed allegations of financial impropriety by one of
      Hinn's former associates, dubious claims of healings and details of the
      pastor's luxurious lifestyle. Hinn tried to limit the damage by rebutting
      the charges in front of faithful viewers on the Trinity Broadcasting
      Network, or TBN.

      Looking into the camera, Hinn said the attacks were orchestrated by Satan
      and that he has prayed to the Lord repeatedly that before "I injure Your
      name, take me out. Before I harm Your kingdom, kill me." The spin didn't
      work. Donations dipped by 12% for the first quarter of this year, say
      ministry officials, a result of bad publicity and the weak economy that has
      hurt other non-profits.

  Hinn tried to limit the damage done by the Dateline investigation by

      rebutting the charges in front of faithful viewers on the Trinity
      Broadcasting Network, or TBN. Looking into the camera, Hinn said the
      attacks were orchestrated by Satan and that he has prayed to the Lord
      repeatedly that before "I injure Your name, take me out. Before I harm Your
      kingdom, kill me." The spin didn't work. Donations dipped by 12% for the
      first quarter of this year, say ministry officials, a result of bad
      publicity and the weak economy that has hurt other non-profits.

      In an attempt to clear up his image, Hinn suggests meeting a Times reporter
      at the Four Seasons hotel in Newport Beach. Accompanied by bodyguards, Hinn
      arrives in his new Mercedes-Benz G500, an SUV that retails for about
      $80,000. He is dressed casually in black, from designer sunglasses to
      leather jacket to shoes... Hinn fiddles with his cell phone, which sports a
      Mercedes logo... First, Hinn declines to divulge his salary. (He told CNN
      in 1997 that he earns between $500,000 and $1 million annually, including
      book royalties.) "Look, any amount I make, somebody's going to be mad," he
      says...

      Hinn does reveal that the $89 million taken in by his church in 2002 is a
      record for his Grapevine, Texas-based ministry, which has experienced
      double-digit growth during the past three years through direct-mail
      requests, viewer donations and offerings taken at the Miracle Crusades.
      [55]

  And how does he do it? Here is one of the many, many instances of Hinn's
  manipulation of believers.


  Benn Hinn’s 2 Min Blessing
  A July 2008 article by reporter Marthinus van Vuuren in news24.com, a South
  African News Web site, entitled 'God bless your credit card', said

      One of Hinn's American guest speakers, Pastor Todd Koontz, Koontz delivered
      a message about "you reap what you sow", then said the service would yield
      millionaires and billionaires within 24 hours.

      “God's blessing would last only two minutes and it would create 500
      churchgoing millionaires or even billionaires - all they had to do was use
      their credit cards to pay $1000 in offerings to televangelist Benny Hinn”.

  Why specifically $1 000? Because

      " an exceptional blessing rested on $1 000."

      “God would bless the people's credit cards and they would be able to rule
      over South Africa with their money” and that 500 audience members would
      receive "an exceptional blessing".

      Koontz apparently really had the congregation scrambling when he said,
      "This blessing will be poured out for only two minutes." [56]

  However

      Pastor Tommie Ferreira of the AGS Church in Johannesburg was so upset about
      the "blessing" that, after a week, he wanted to know who of the donors
      actually had become millionaires.

      Ferreira told Rapport he did not mean to bring about Hinn's downfall. He
      merely wanted to know if any of the hundreds of churchgoers who donated
      amounts of up to $1, 000 (about R7,500) to Hinn's Miracle Crusade last week
      Saturday had now become millionaires... He said he could not live with his
      conscience if he did not speak to others about this possible trickery...

      "I'm not attacking them (Hinn and Koontz). It just really gets my goat when
      people make unfounded claims and then they're off with these people's
      money.""  [56] [TOP OF PAGE]


  Reforms?
  Benny Hinn has promised some reforms in a letter responding to the probe by
  Senator Charles Grassley, including

      The church will no longer provide vehicles to Hinn and his family, also
      Hinn and his family will no longer use church credit cards.

      Acknowledging that Meeting of the Board of Directors "were held in
      leisure-centric locations and convened to satisfy minimum board duties and
      requirements", the "now-existent Directors have determined that such
      meetings and related expenses were not sufficiently justified".

      "The Church had for years acquired aircraft by purchase or lease without
      entertaining a study regarding what method, and what craft, best suited the
      Church's needs," "After a review of that process, the Directors determined
      that a third-party review of the Church's aircraft needs, and whether it
      should own or lease such craft, was prudent" [57]

  No kidding!

  In the final analysis, as said by the Orange County Register [All Emphasis
  Added]

      And for all this transparency, we note that the financials Hinn provided
      Grassley were from 2006; there were apparently no updates; and current
      finances are not disclosed anywhere on Hinn’s web site that we could find.
      There is a page titled “church finances” [58] which includes a pretty pie
      chart of where money is going (59 percent media ministry, 29 percent
      international missions and crusades, etc.), but no actual dollar figures,
      and certainly no detail on who is being paid what.

      What is he pulling in today, and what he’s doing with it? Only Hinn knows
      for sure [59]

    You may also want to read A Brief on WHCC “Church” Status, February, 2005.
                    Rebuttal to WHCC/BHM’s response to IRS HERE

  Although information about Benny Hinn, including his sham healings, and false
  prophecy could fill several books, we will close with the fact that...


  Benny Hinn is Being Sued by His Publisher
  And in more recent news, The Orlando Sentinel carried an article By Rene
  Stutzman on February 17, 2011, by Rene Stutzman entitled Faith healer violated
  our morality clause. It said, in part

      A Lake Mary book publisher is suing tele-evangelist and faith healer Benny
      Hinn, saying he violated a morality clause in their contract when he began
      an "inappropriate relationship" with another evangelist, and thus, must pay
      $250,000.

      In August, Hinn admitted to a friendship with evangelist Paula White after
      The National Enquirer published photos of them in Rome, holding hands. Hinn
      was married at the time. His wife, Suzanne, had filed for divorce a few
      months earlier.

      Three years earlier, Hinn had signed a three-book deal with Strang
      Communications Co. of Lake Mary. He was paid a $300,000 advance on the
      first one, Blood in the Sand, according to the suit. Hinn acknowledged to
      his publisher "his inappropriate relationship" with White in August,
      according to the suit, and agreed that the publisher should get back its
      money, but he has yet to pay up. [60]
      [TOP OF PAGE]

       [See Section The Prosperity Doctrine ..Does God Want Us To Be Rich?]

  
  Joyce Meyer..
  Tele-JoyceMeyerAbout: Charismatic Christian author and speaker who, according
  to her web site, teaches on hundreds of subjects through Joyce Meyer
  Ministries, headquartered in the St. Louis suburb of Fenton, Missouri. Joyce
  has authored over 80 books, in over 80 different languages. More than 12
  million of her books have been distributed around the world, and in 2007 more
  than 3.2 million copies were sold. [61]

  It has been reported that Joyce Meyer took more than a 50 percent reduction in
  her annual salary, which brought her earnings down to about $250,000, However
  the royalties from her many books are estimated to be worth anywhere from
  hundreds of thousands to millions of dollars a year. [62].

  She too, like many of the Health-Wealth preachers has an honorary doctorate in
  divinity from Oral Roberts University in Tulsa, Oklahoma.

  While there can be little doubt that her ministry does a lot of good,
  reportedly providing more than 11.5 million meals to people around the world in
  2006, and over the years has built more than 190 wells to provide clean
  drinking water. Additionally "The ministry funds more than 40 orphanages across
  Asia, and locally it works with Ronald McDonald House and St. Jude Children's
  Research Hospital, among other organizations". [63] there is little question
  that a great deal of money is spent on lavish living, which Joyce Meyer calls
  being "blessed"...


  The Investigation:
  In the course of the investigation into the financial dealings of six TV
  evangelists, Sen. Grassley's staff has asked Joyce Meyer to provide documents
  detailing the finances of the Joyce Meyer Ministries, including the religious
  group's compensation to Meyer, her husband and other family members, as well as
  an accounting of their housing allowances, gifts and credit card statements for
  the last several years. Five other ministries are also being investigated. In
  his five-page letter, Grassley also asked Meyer for:

      A "detailed accounting" of all her and her husband's expense-account items,
      including clothing and cosmetic surgery.

      — Information about any overseas bank accounts and deposits made outside
      the U.S. after international evangelical crusades.

      — The tax-exempt purpose of items purchased for her ministry's
      headquarters, such as a $23,000 marble-topped commode, a $30,000 conference
      table and an $11,219 French clock.

      — A detailed accounting of total monthly expenses for upkeep on the Meyers'
      personal residence, and any vacation homes, from 2004 to the present.

      — An explanation of any personal use of the ministries' tax-exempt assets,
      including "jets, employees, facilities," from 2004 to the present.

      — An explanation for how personal gifts from donors, such as money or
      jewelry, are handled and reported to the IRS.

      Among the services provided in 2006, according to the report: 11.5 million
      meals served, 41 orphanages "fully supported" and 174,538 gift bags
      delivered to prisoners.   [64]


  Ministry Headquarters
  An Article entitled From Fenton to fortune in the name of God on November 15,
  2003 in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch gave it's readers a great deal of insight
  into Joyce Meyer's lifestyle.

      The ministry's headquarters is a three-story jewel of red brick and
      emerald-color glass that, from the outside, has the look and feel of a
      luxury resort hotel. Built two years ago for $20 million, the building and
      grounds are postcard perfect, from manicured flower beds and walkways to a
      five-story lighted cross.

      The driveway to the office complex is lined on both sides with the flags of
      dozens of nations reached by the ministry. A large bronze sculpture of the
      Earth sits atop an open Bible near the parking lot. Just outside the main
      entrance, a sculpture of an American eagle landing on a tree branch stands
      near a man-made waterfall. A message in gold letters greets employees and
      visitors over the front entryway: "Look what the Lord Has Done."

      The building is decorated with religious paintings and sculptures, and
      quality furniture. Much of it, Meyer says, she selected herself.

      A Jefferson County assessor's list offers a glimpse into the value of many
      of the items: a $19,000 pair of Dresden vases, six French crystal vases
      bought for $18,500, an $8,000 Dresden porcelain depicting the Nativity, two
      $5,800 curio cabinets, a $5,700 porcelain of the Crucifixion, a pair of
      German porcelain vases bought for $5,200.

      The decor includes a $30,000 malachite round table, a $23,000 marble-topped
      antique commode, a $14,000 custom office bookcase, a $7,000 Stations of the
      Cross in Dresden porcelain, a $6,300 eagle sculpture on a pedestal, another
      eagle made of silver bought for $5,000, and numerous paintings purchased
      for $1,000 to $4,000 each. 

  InPlainSite Note: The Commode referred to above probably does not refer to a
  toilet. The word "Commode" used to refer to a cabinet, with one or more doors,
  that served as a washstand with a washbasin and water pitcher, which also
  offered an enclosed area below for storing a chamber pot. In contemporary
  English "Commode" usually refers to a low chest of drawers on stubby legs. 

      Inside Meyer's private office suite sit a conference table and 18 chairs
      bought for $49,000. The woodwork in the offices of Meyer and her husband
      cost the ministry $44,000.

      In all, assessor's records of the ministry's personal property show that
      nearly $5.7 million worth of furniture, artwork, glassware, and the latest
      equipment and machinery fill the 158,000-square-foot building.

      As of this summer, the ministry also owned a fleet of vehicles with an
      estimated value of $440,000. The Jefferson County assessor has been trying
      to get the complex and its contents added to the tax rolls but has failed.
      [TOP OF PAGE]

      Stylish Sports Cars and a Plane
      Meyer drives the ministry's 2002 Lexus SC sports car with a retractable
      top, valued at $53,000. Her son Dan, 25, drives the ministry's 2001 Lexus
      sedan, with a value of $46,000. Meyer's husband drives his Mercedes-Benz
      S55 AMG sedan. "My husband just likes cars," Meyer said.

      The Meyers keep the ministry's Canadair CL-600 Challenger jet, which Joyce
      Meyer says is worth $10 million, at Spirit of St. Louis Airport in
      Chesterfield. The ministry employs two full-time pilots to fly the Meyers
      to conferences around the world.

      Meyer calls the plane a "lifesaver" for her and her family. "It enabled us,
      at our age, to travel literally all over the world and preach the gospel"
      with better security than that offered on commercial flights, she said.

  Note: Minutes of ministry board meetings show that for 2002 and 2003, the board
  approved compensation packages of up to $900,000 for Joyce Meyer and up to
  $450,000 for her husband. Any personal use of the ministry's corporate plane or
  automobiles was to be deducted from those totals. [65]

      The Family Compound
      The ministry has also bought homes for other key employees.

      Since 1999, the ministry has spent at least $4 million on five homes for
      Meyer and her four children near Interstate 270 and Gravois Road, St. Louis
      County records show.

      Meyer's house, the largest of the five, is a 10,000-square-foot Cape Cod
      style estate home with a guest house and a garage that can be independently
      heated and cooled and can hold up to eight cars. The three-acre property
      has a large fountain, a gazebo, a private putting green, a pool and a
      poolhouse where the ministry recently added a $10,000 bathroom. (Aerial
      View of All Five Houses Below)

      The ministry pays for utilities, maintenance and landscaping costs at all
      five homes. It also pays for renovations. The Meyers ordered major rehab
      work at the ministry's expense right after the ministry bought three of the
      homes. For example, the ministry bought one home, leveled it and then built
      a new home on the site to the specifications of Meyer's daughter Sandra and
      her husband, county records show. Even the property taxes, $15, 629 this
      year, are paid by the ministry.

      Meyer called the homes a "good investment" for the ministry and said the
      ministry bears the cost of upkeep and maintenance because the family is too
      busy to take care of such tasks. "It's just too hard to keep up with
      something like that when you travel as much as we do," Meyer said.

      She said that federal tax law allows ministries to buy parsonages for their
      employees, so the arrangement does not violate any prohibitions against
      personal benefit. Meyer also said the decision to cluster the families
      together was a way to build a buffer to better ensure privacy and security.
      "We put good people all around us," she said. "Obviously, if I was trying
      to hide anything or thought I was doing anything wrong, I wouldn't live on
      the corner of Gravois and 270." 

      Note: It has since been reported that two of the homes,  occupied by two of
      Meyer's four adult children and their families, are up for sale.  [TOP OF
      PAGE]


  Personal Spending
  "Meyer says she expects the best, from where she lives to how she looks. Much
  of her clothing is custom-tailored at an upscale West County dress shop. At her
  conferences, she usually wears flashy jewelry. She sports an impressive diamond
  ring that she said she got from one of her followers. Meyer has a private
  hairdresser. And, a few years ago, Meyer told her employees she was getting a
  face-lift.

  Not everything is paid directly by the ministry.

  Last year, the Meyers bought a $500,000 atrium ranch lakefront home in Porto
  Cima, a private-quarters club at Lake of the Ozarks. A few weeks later, they
  bought two watercrafts similar to Jet Skis and a $105,000 Crownline boat
  painted red, white and blue that they named the Patriot.

  In 2000, the Meyers also bought her parents a $130,000 home just a few minutes
  from where the Meyers live.

  The Meyers have put the Mercedes, the lake house, the boat and her parents'
  home into an irrevocable trust, an arrangement that tax experts say would help
  protect them from any financial problems at the ministry.

  Meyer says she should not have to defend how she spends the ministry's money.
  "We teach and preach and believe biblically that God wants to bless people who
  serve Him," Meyer said. "So there's no need for us to apologize for being
  blessed." [66] [TOP OF PAGE]

*                                                                                                                                   *
  * ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ [cle]
    The Meyer Family Compound.
    Photo by Robert Cohen, St Louis Post Dispatch

  [cle]                                                                                ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
        JM-Home-Aerial
  * ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ * * [clearpi] ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ [clearp] * ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
    1) Residence of: Joyce and Dave Meyer          2) Residence of: Daughter, Sandra McCollom and
    Bought: April 27th, 1999                       her husband Steve
    Purchase Price: About $795,000                 Bought: February 12, 2002
    Square Footage: 10,000                         Purchase Price: $400,000
    Cost of Improvements: $1.1 Million             Square Footage: About 5,000
    Features: 6 Bedrooms, 5 Bathrooms, Gold        Cost of Improvements: About $250,000
    Putting Green, Swimming pool, 8 Car Heated     Features: 4 Bedrooms, 3 full and 2 half
    and Cooled Garage,  Guest House with 2 more    Bathrooms, All-Seasons room, Prayer Room, Media
    bedrooms, Gazebo.                              Center and a Home Office.

    3) Residence of: Son, David Meyer and his      4) Residence of: Daughter, Laura Holtzmann and
    wife Joy Meyer.                                her husband Doug
    Bought: June 18, 2001                          Bought: March 7, 2001
    Purchase Price: $725,000                       Purchase Price: $350,000
    Square Footage: 4,000                          Square Footage: 2,358
    Cost of Improvements: Unknown                  Cost of Improvements: $3,000
    Features: 2 Story Colonial, 4 Bedrooms, 2      Features: 3 Bedrooms, 2 Bathrooms with a
    1/2 Bathrooms, 2 Garages and a Utility         Fireplace.
    Shed
                                                             [TOP OF PAGE]
    5) Residence of: Son, Dan Meyer and his wife
    Charity
    Bought: Mar 13, 2000
    Purchase Price: About 200,000
    Square Footage: About 2,000
    Cost of Improvements: $33,000
    Features: Brick Ranch With Full Finished
    Basement

* ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ *
  Eddie Lee Long
  Tele-Eddie-Long(born May 12, 1953) is the senior pastor of New Birth Missionary
  Baptist Church, a megachurch of more than 25,000 members near Lithonia,
  Georgia.

  Described on his web site as "a bold revolutionary spiritual leader,
  best-selling author, life coach and motivational speaker, recognized as a
  gifted charismatic orator and rising voice of the global faith-based
  community", Long has written a number of best-selling books while his
  Emmy-Award-winning broadcast, Taking Authority, airs on TBN thereby reaching
  172 countries, and more than 270 million people. He produces national
  conferences each year including FOCUS, Spirit and Truth, Heart to Heart and
  youth conference, is executive producer of a television program called Musical
  Theater of Hope and, in 2009, released a CD entitled Bishop Long and Friends:
  The Kingdom Volume One. [67]

  According to the New York Times...

      His message that God wants people to prosper has attracted celebrities,
      professional athletes and socialites, swelling the membership to 25,000.
      Bishop Long’s New Birth Missionary Baptist Church Tele-Long_Churchincludes
      a multimillion-dollar network of charities and businesses, a private school
      and the Samson’s Health and Fitness Center, where he holds court and pumps
      iron with young people. [68]


  Eddie Long and Ludacris
  In a write up about Bishop Long and Friends, the site NuthinButGospel.com
  informs it's readers that Bishop Long was "No stranger to the music industry".
  He

      "... was featured on rapper Ludacris' album "Release Therapy." He appeared
      on the final track "Freedom of Preach" where he delivered a speech about
      God and faith.

  Release Therapy won the Best Rap Album award for the 2007 Grammy Awards and is
  said to feature a departure of the lighthearted mood of Ludacris' previous
  albums, and introduces a darker side.

  Now that's a scary thought, considering that Ludacris, who some consider more
  vile than Eminem, (is that even possible?) was a featured representative of
  Pepsi until, on August 27, 2002, Bill O'Reilly called for all Americans to
  boycott Pepsi products, saying that Ludacris' lyrics glamorize a "life of guns,
  violence, drugs and disrespect of women". O'Reilly  wasn't exactly joking as
  the lyrics of Ludacris' 2001 "Move Bitch" show.. (And believe me, the small
  portion of the lyrics I have quoted are tame, compared to what follows)

      I'm doin' a hundred on the highway, So if you do the speed limit, get the
      F... outta my way

      I'm D.U.I., hardly ever caught sober, and you about to get ran the F...
      over

  And that people, is the kind of man that our modern day, pathetic apologies for
  ‘Christian’ ministers, ‘make music’ and associate with.

  What is really mind-boggling are the following two lines on this tract, both by
  Ludacris

      I know some folks may not agree or even like this song, But I'm just
      speakin MY truth, cause I heard it sets you free

      “He resides, in me (yeah)”. 

  Read Lyrics...http://www.metrolyrics.com/freedom-of-preach-lyrics-ludacris.html
  Hear Song... http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ikcfn5z3_GY


  Finances.
  On August 28, 2005 the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported that during the
  period between 1997 to 2000, Long received more than $3.07 million worth of
  compensation and benefits from his non-profit charity, Bishop Eddie Long
  Ministries Inc. [All Emphasis Added]

      In 1995, Bishop Eddie Long established a nonprofit, tax-exempt charity to
      help the needy and spread the gospel.  But it was Long, leader of the
      largest church congregation in Georgia, who became the charity's biggest
      beneficiary.

      The charity, Bishop Eddie Long Ministries Inc., provided him with at least
      $3.07 million in salary, benefits and the use of property between 1997 and
      2000 -- nearly as much as it gave to all other recipients combined during
      those years, tax records show.

      It is one of at least 20 nonprofit and for-profit corporations that Long
      founded after becoming pastor of New Birth Missionary Baptist Church in
      1987. Long's businesses include a music publishing company and a
      transportation service.

      The charity's compensation to Long over that four-year period included:

      > A $1.4 million six-bedroom, nine-bath home on 20 acres in Lithonia.

      > Use of a $350,000 luxury Bentley automobile.

      > More than $1 million in salary, including $494,000 in 2000.

  Additionally, the report said that "Long and his wife, Vanessa, were two of the
  charity's four board members. The charity gave a third board member, Terrance
  Thornton, a $160,000 loan in 1999 to buy a home site across the street from
  Long's house, tax records show." [69]

  A 2010 New York Times piece says..

      Bishop Long cuts a flashy figure in Lithonia, the Atlanta suburb where he
      lives and has built his church. He is often seen in a Bentley
      Tele-Eddie-Long-homeattended by bodyguards. He tends to wear clothes that
      show off his muscular physique. He favors Gucci sunglasses, gold necklaces,
      diamond bracelets and Rolex watches. He lives in a 5,000-square-foot house
      with five bedrooms, which he bought for $1.1 million in 2005.

      His lavish display of wealth is in keeping with his theology. In his
      sermons, he often tells his congregation that God wants them to be wealthy
      and asserts that Jesus was not a poor man. By all accounts, he has been
      well compensated for his leadership in building New Birth from a church
      with a few hundred members into the largest congregation in Georgia. His
      televised sermons reach 170 countries.

      In 2005, for instance, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution published tax
      records showing that from 1997 to 2000 Bishop Long had accepted $3 million
      in salary, housing, a car and other perks from a charity he controlled.
      [70]

  Long's defense of his 'compensation' reeked of superiority.

      "We're not just a church, we're an international corporation, " Long said.
      "We're not just a bumbling bunch of preachers who can't talk and all we're
      doing is baptizing babies. I deal with the White House. I deal with Tony
      Blair. I deal with presidents around this world. I pastor a
      multimillion-dollar congregation.

      "You've got to put me on a different scale than the little black preacher
      sitting over there that's supposed to be just getting by because the people
      are suffering." [71]

  They also carried a photograph of Eddie Long's million dollar house.


  The Sex Scandal
  Since this is an article on "lifestyles" of the Tele-evangelists, I guess the
  following summary from Wikipedia is not out of place.

      On September 21 and 22, 2010, Maurice Robinson, Anthony Flagg, and Jamal
      Parris filed separate lawsuits in DeKalb County Superior Court alleging
      that Long used his pastoral influence to coerce them into a sexual
      relationship with him. Flagg's suit says that Long presided over a
      spiritual "covenant" ceremony between the two of them.

      "It was essentially a marriage ceremony, with candles, exchange of jewelry,
      and biblical quotes," Bernstein said Tuesday. "The bishop [told] him I will
      always have your back and you will always have mine."

      Robinson's suit alleges that "Defendant Long would use Holy Scripture to
      discuss and justify the intimate relationship between himself and Plaintiff
      Robinson." [72]

      The third suit was filed in DeKalb County Superior Court, said a
      spokeswoman for attorney B.J. Bernstein. [73]

  On September 24, Spencer LeGrande, a member of a New Birth satellite church in
  Charlotte, North Carolina, filed a similar suit, making him the fourth man to
  file a lawsuit claiming sexual misconduct by Long. The complaint, filed in
  DeKalb State Court, comes after three other men filed lawsuits on Tuesday and
  Wednesday saying they were 17- and 18-year-old members of the church when they
  say Long abused his spiritual authority to seduce them with cars, money,
  clothes, jewelry, international trips and access to celebrities. [74] [TOP OF
  PAGE]

  
  “Bishop” Elijah Bernard Jordan
  This one may take the proverbial cake, considering that the ceiling of one room
  in his multi million dollar mansion in an exclusive gated community, features a
  painting of Jordan on a throne – as God – with his three sons hovering around
  him as angels. [Details and Photographs] 

  
  T.D. (Thomas Dexter) Jakes
  Tele-TDJakes-Timeis the chief pastor of The Potter's House, a
  non-denominational American megachurch, with 30,000 members, located in Dallas,
  Texas.

  According to TDJ Enterprises, he is a prolific author of more than 30 books,
  two of which reached No. 3 on The New York Times Best Sellers list. Jakes’
  music label Dexterity Sounds, has produced many music projects, including the
  Grammy Award-winning A Wing and a Prayer. He has appeared as a guest on Dr.
  Phil, The Doctors, Oprah, CNN, and MSNBC, and "has garnered profiles in such
  notable publications as Forbes, The Washington Post, Essence, TIME, Ebony and D
  Magazine". [75]

  T.D. Jakes' church services and evangelistic sermons are broadcast on The
  Potter's Touch, which airs on the Trinity Broadcasting Network, Black
  Entertainment Television, the Daystar Television Network, The Word Network and
  The Miracle Channel in Canada. Other aspects of Jakes' ministry include an
  annual revival called "MegaFest" (which draws more than 100,000 people during
  that period of time), an annual women's conference called "Woman Thou Art
  Loosed", and gospel music recordings.

  Jakes was also named by Time Magazine as “America’s Best Preacher”... to which
  I only have one question. What exactly does a secular, liberal magazine, know
  about preaching?  The answer.. ABSOLUTELY NOTHING.

  But I digress

  The man who, in 2006, received a brand new convertible Bentley from friend
  Paula White, justifies his lifestyle by using Jesus as an example of a rich
  Christian, insinuating that

      "Jesus "employed" 12 people to help spread his message, Jakes says, as
      though the apostles were on salary".

  Adding ..

      Why else would Roman soldiers have gambled for his cloak as Jesus lay dying
      on the cross, if the cloak hadn't been unusually valuable? ..."The myth of
      the poor Jesus needs to be destroyed, because it's holding people back,"
      [76].

  An MSNBC Report tells us that

      “Jakes works as hard as any CEO and makes no apologies for living like one
      too. He ".. has a movie and tv production company, a music recording
      studio, and his own record label. He has distribution deals with the likes
      of Sony, EMI, Time Warner, Clear Channel and Trinity Broadcasting".

  He says (youtube video)

      "Living well in America is not wrong, it's how you go about getting the
      money that's an issue. It gives me a great deal of credibility, whether I
      am working with ex-inmates, to say that it is possible to have the American
      dream without selling drugs. I cannot say that it if I haven't done it
      myself". [77]Tele-Jakes-WLake

  Jakes, who drives a Mercedes, has moved with his wife and their five children
  to a luxurious seven-bedroom home with swimming pool in the White Rock Lake
  area of Dallas.

      “Flanked by a row of elegant cedars and surrounded by a tall iron gate, the
      $2.6 million pink brick house with fluted cream columns and a four-car
      garage is imposing even in this affluent neighborhood. Next door is the
      former mansion of oil tycoon H.L. Hunt, once known as the richest man in
      the world. The Hunt house has been undergoing repairs, and its lawn has
      withered to beige. These days it almost pales in comparison with its
      neighbor”. [78]

  Jakes said the home cost more than $1 million, adding that he thinks “we need
  some Christians who are in first class as well as coach,”

  The Dallas Observer magazine reports:

      “His conferences draw tens of thousands. His television show, broadcast on
      both the Trinity Broadcasting Network and Black Entertainment Television,
      reaches hundreds of thousands. He has spawned his own industry, T.D. Jakes
      Ministries, which sells his books — 10 in all, with five best-sellers — and
      videotapes, the income from which allowed him to spend nearly $1 million
      last year on a residence in his hometown of Charleston, West Virginia.”
      [80]

  The Dallas Observer goes on to report:

      “He says he is not embarrassed by this, even though his extravagant
      lifestyle has caused controversy in his hometown that will likely follow
      him to Dallas. His suits are tailored. He drives a brand new Mercedes. Both
      he and his wife Serita are routinely decked out in stunning jewelry. His
      West Virginia residence — two homes side by side — includes an indoor
      swimming pool and a bowling alley. These homes particularly caused the ire
      of the local folks. One paper wrote at length about the purchase and made
      much of their unusual features. A columnist dubbed Jakes ‘a huckster.’” 
      [81]
      [TOP OF PAGE]

       [See Section The Prosperity Doctrine ..Does God Want Us To Be Rich?]

  
  John Hagee
  According to his own web site, John Hagee is the founder and Senior Pastor of
  Cornerstone Church in San Antonio, Texas, a non-denominational evangelical
  church with more than 19,000 active members [82].  He is also President of John
  Hagee Ministries, which telecasts his national radio and television teachings
  throughout America and in 235 nations worldwide, and founder and National
  Chairman of Christians United for Israel, a Christian Zionist advocacy
  organization that promotes the idea that Christians have a biblical obligation
  to defend Israel. Television broadcasts of Hagee's religious services, promoted
  by his Global Evangelism Television (GETV) corporation, reach several million
  viewers.

  He promotes the doctrine of positive confession which maintains that Christians
  can speak (i.e., positively confess) physical realities into existence as long
  as the believer exercises enough faith to accompany his or her verbal
  confession. [See Section Word of Faith / Positive Confession... as applied to
  Prosperity and Healing]

  In his DVD, 7 Secrets of Financial Freedom, Hagee says "Prosperity is a Choice,
  Not a Chance" and that God's will for every believer is freedom from "debt and
  the bondage of creditors" and that they "have more than enough financial means
  to meet every need". [83] .

  He is certainly doing his best not to disappoint God...

      “Since Hagee and his wife, Diana Hagee, founded GETV 25 years ago, the
      organization has gone from a back-room operation broadcasting Sunday
      sermons to San Antonio area viewers to a 50,000-square-foot multimedia
      studio broadcasting to 127 television stations and 82 radio stations
      nationwide...

      .... According to the 990 forms for GETV, the organization in 2001 netted
      $12.3 million from donations, $4.8 million in profit from the sales of
      books and tapes, and an additional $1.1 million from various other sources,
      including rental income.

      As the nonprofit organization's president, Hagee drew $540,000 in
      compensation, as well as an additional $302,005 in compensation for his
      position as president of Cornerstone Church, according to GETV's tax
      statements.

      He also received $411,561 in benefits from GETV, including contributions to
      a retirement package for highly paid executives the IRS calls a "rabbi
      trust," so named because the first beneficiary of such an irrevocable trust
      was a rabbi.

      The John Hagee Rabbi Trust includes a $2.1 million 7,969-acre ranch outside
      Brackettville, with five lodges, including a "main lodge" and a gun locker.
      It also includes a manager's house, a smokehouse, a skeet range and three
      barns.

      Taken together, his payment package, $842,005 in compensation and $414,485
      in benefits, was one of the highest, if not the highest, pay package for a
      nonprofit director in the San Antonio area in 2001.”

      ”..  Hagee's compensation was among the highest pay packages for television
      evangelists in 2001, according to IRS 990 filings”

      In Addition Hagee’s wife “Diana Hagee received compensation of $67,907 as
      vice president of GETV and $58,813 as the special events director for
      Cornerstone Church”. [84] [TOP OF PAGE]

  
  Pat Robertson:
  Estimates of Pat Robertson’s net worth vary between 140 million and a billion
  dollars. While the exact figure is not known, there is little doubt that he is
  a wealthy man... An extremely wealthy man, with a “mammoth media, educational,
  and legal empire”.

      “Robertson lives on the top of a Virginia mountain, in a huge mansion with
      a private airstrip. He owns the Ice Capades [Pat Robertson's International
      Family Entertainment Inc bought Ice Capades In February 1995 from Dorothy
      Hamill for $10 million], a small hotel, diamond mines (in Zaire), a vitamin
      company (Kalo Vita) involved in a multi-level marketing scheme along the
      lines of Amway, and until recently, International Family Entertainment,
      parent company of the Family Channel … all estimated to be worth between
      $150-200 million”. [85]

  However Pat Robertson is unique among all the other crooks mentioned on this
  page, some of whom could be charitably considered ‘vastly deluded individuals’.
  He has taken the word 'Christian' leader to new lows, partially lining his
  pockets by getting involved with diamond-mining operations and brutal
  dictators, to say nothing of dealing with peddlers of porn... all the while
  peddling his version of the truth to millions. Unfortunately Pat Robertson’s
  reprehensible conduct has far too many facets to be listed here, so continue
  reading HERE.

  
  Fred Price
  Tele-Fred-PriceAfter the 20/20’s March 2007 fiasco in which they treated an old
  Fred Price sermon as being a real life situation, ABC has been sued by Fred
  Price who accused them of  breaching "fundamental journalist guidelines. They
  thought Price was talking about himself in a sermon when he said


      "I live in a 25-room mansion, I have my own $6-million yacht, I have my own
      private jet and I have my own helicopter and I have seven luxury
      automobiles."

  [The network has run more than one retraction, one on "Good Morning America",
  and the other on "20/20." ABC also posted a retraction on its web site].

  However Fred Price has made a career of preaching the prosperity gospel stating
  that he can quote Scripture after Scripture that show it is God's will for us
  to materially prosper, and they are always going to have opponents as Satan is
  going to fight them tooth and nail. [See The Prosperity Doctrine ..Does God
  Want Us To Be Rich?]

  And prosper he has.. Although Price's home in the pricey Palos Verdes Estates
  doesn't boast 25 rooms, and he definitely doesn't own a helicopter, he does own
  not one, but two Bentleys. His nearly 8,000-square-foot house is valued at $3.5
  million, and he commutes by private jet between his two churches, the Crenshaw
  Christian Center in Los Angeles, and another in New York's Manhattan area.

      "The ministry operates an Aviation Partners Blended Winglets-equipped
      Gulfstream IISP based at LGB (Long Beach CA) and crewed by 2 full-time
      pilots and a flight attendant. .. Welcome to the world of mega-churches and
      celebrity preachers. "Make no mistake about it-this is a business,” says
      Price. "We have the same needs for corporate jets and productivity tools as
      any other business.”... "Other aircraft types might have done the job for
      us,” Price says, "but we got stuck in the Cadillac showroom and we didn't
      get any further.”” [86] [TOP OF PAGE]

  
  Juanita Bynum
  Tele-Juanita-BynumThe "million-dollar" wedding of Dr. Juanita Bynum, well-known
  evangelist and author of the best-selling Matters of the Heart, to Bishop
  Thomas W. Weeks III featured a wedding party of 80, all friends and family,
  1,000 guests, a 12-piece orchestra, and a 7.76-carat diamond ring. The
  black-tie wedding cost "more than a million," the bride said, and included
  flowers flown in from around the world. "My dress," she says, "took nine months
  to make. All of the crystals (Swarovski) on the gown were hand-sewn. The
  headpiece was sterling silver, hand-designed. [www.marriage-planner.com. Site
  no longer exists].

  A few more details come from Charisma MagazineTele-Bynum-Weeks


      On that chilly, overcast spring day, about 900 guests --including
      relatives, close friends and a quorum of Christian celebrities-- shuffled
      through the revolving doors of the hotel's grand ballroom. What awaited
      them on the other side resembled Paris in April: gurgling fountains, a
      10-piece orchestra, lots of soft candlelight, and the aroma of roses, calla
      lilies and cymbidium.

      In the midst of this fantasy land, the bride appeared --wearing a
      platinum-colored satin gown designed by Tony Coralle and Peter Abony. The
      bodice, which was covered in Swarovski crystals, blossomed into a full
      skirt with floral embroidery trimmed in even more crystals. The 50-foot
      train, which reversed to a deeper shade of platinum, nearly covered the
      200-foot aisle that Bynum walked down arm-in-arm with her father, Thomas
      Bynum.

      As a young girl, I dreamed of having a beautiful wedding," Bynum told
      Charisma. She got her wish.

          "Prophetess Bynum looked like a 21st century princess prepared for a
          royal coronation," said Joyce Rodgers, an evangelist with the Church of
          God in Christ, who traveled from Texas to attend the wedding. Other
          guests included Texas televangelist John Hagee, who assisted with the
          ceremony, and an eight-member camera crew from the Trinity Broadcasting
          Network (TBN).

      The wedding party was huge, with more than 80 men, women and children
      participating. Bynum's bridesmaids lit up the processional wearing
      shimmering pink dusters with rhinestone buttons. Bynum and her dressmakers
      created the two-piece ensembles especially for the occasion.

      "Juanita's wedding was fit for a queen," one guest from Chicago said. [87]
       

  Update [August 2007]
  In 1997 Juanita Bynum said she was waiting for the Holy Ghost to send her a
  good man. Apparently the Holy Ghost hasn't done so yet..

  Her million dollar marriage to Bishop Thomas W. Weeks came apart at the seams
  when they met at the Renaissance [August 2007] to talk about reconciliation
  after having been separated for several months. [He was evicted from their home
  in Duluth] The meeting erupted into Weeks physically assaulting Bynum in the
  parking lot of the hotel. After turning himself in, he spent six hours in the
  Fulton County Jail before being released on $40,000 bond Friday. He is charged
  with aggravated assault for allegedly choking, kicking and hitting Bynum on
  Tuesday

  Week's excuse? "The devil made me do it". [88]

                   [Also See May Christians Divorce & Re-Marry?]

  Update [October 2007]
  A couple of months following this very public dispute, Ware County Tax
  Commissioner Steve Barnard says that the sprawling $4.5 million estate of the
  Pentecostal preacher is on the verge of being auctioned off, according to the
  Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Barnard says that he filed a lien against her
  24-acre property in early June because Bynum failed to pay $32,007.56 in 2006
  property taxes, plus a $3,200 penalty and $2,240 in interest.

  Included on the property, near Waycross, Ga., are a 7,487-square-foot house, a
  6,748-square-foot house and a 1,366-square-foot house. She lives in one of the
  homes, Barnard said. Apparently The 30-acre South Georgia compound with a lake
  view was purchased to house the headquarters of Juanita Bynum Ministries and
  the Mt. Olive Country Spa for women seeking pampering, prayer and spiritual
  guidance.

  Update [October 2007]
  An update from the Atlanta Journal-Constitution says [All Emphasis Added]

      Evangelist Juanita Bynum said Friday she has paid the delinquent property
      tax and that the debt was an oversight. She is seeking a tax exemption on
      the property and hopes to recoup the tax payment in the future. The 30-acre
      compound with a lake view in South Georgia was purchased to house the
      headquarters of Juanita Bynum Ministries and the Mt. Olive Country Spa for
      women seeking pampering, prayer and spiritual guidance.

      Meanwhile, plans are moving forward for the spa at the compound, which
      currently includes four buildings. Another building will be added for the
      spa and prayer room. Bynum said she also will release a makeup line called
      Ethne’ and a group of bath products under the Mt. Olive brand name. Both
      have been under development for about a year, she said. [89]

  Ware County tax commissioner Steve Barnard " said he doubts Bynum qualifies for
  an exemption. He said he has discussed Bynum’s appeal for a tax exemption with
  the Georgia Department of Revenue and he does not believe that her compound
  should get one because it does not have a congregation and it is not open to
  the general public."  [TOP OF PAGE]

  
  The Crystal Cathedral:
  seeing-stars.com, which bills itself as the Ultimate Guide to Celebrities and
  Hollywood, has this to say about the Crystal Cathedral.... "If ever there was a
  "Hollywood" church, in the true sense of the word, it is the Community Church
  in Garden Grove, better known as The Crystal Cathedral".  They aren't kidding.

      "In September of 1959, ground-breaking ceremonies were held at the location
      of the present church property in Garden Grove, California. The Crystal
      Cathedral was completed in 1980, from which Schuller now tapes his weekly
      service and later broadcasts on his weekly "Hour of Power" television show
      (begun in 1970). This cathedral is a vast golden edifice with 10,000
      windows, huge video screens, and a 10-foot tall angel hovering from the
      roof on a rope of gold. He has built up a congregation of over 9,500
      members in a church that cost over $20 million.

      The "Tower of Power" television ministry makes more than $50 million a year
      and is beamed to about 20 million viewers in more than 180 countries.
      Schuller claims to receive between thirty and forty thousand letters a week
      and has a mailing list of over one million people. He has authored more
      than 25 books, several of them national best sellers”. [90]

  seeing-stars.com adds...

      Made almost entirely of glass (and a spiderweb framework of white steel),
      the star-shaped "cathedral" is something to behold: over 400 feet long and
      200 feet across, rising some 12 stories above the ground, with an angular,
      mirror-like exterior, its transparent, sun-lit interior features a giant
      television screen, and an altar of rich marble (bearing a natural image
      that some think resembles Christ on the cross). The cathedral's pipe organ
      (with 16,000 pipes, it's among the five largest pipe organs in the world),
      the 100-plus voices of the Hour of Power Choir, or the electric fountain/
      stream that runs down the middle of the central aisle. The church seats
      almost 3,000 worshipers for Sunday services. But giant, sliding glass doors
      on the side of the church allow even more worshipers to watch the services
      from their cars in the parking lot.

      Boasting over 12,000 panes of glass, and a sparkling, contemporary bell
      tower, the "cathedral " is an Orange County landmark visible for miles
      around. The new glass tower was added in 1990, and is a stunning edifice in
      its own right; at the tower's base you will find a tiny, dome-shaped chapel
      housing an uncommon, cross-shaped crystal. Instead the usual wooden church
      pews, the “cathedral.” offers soft, theatre-style, individual seats (each
      bearing a small plaque with the name of a donor). During Sunday services,
      the church offers a nursery and childcare services. [91] [TOP OF PAGE]

  As said by the Orange County Register

      The church's "Hour of Power" television show attracted 1 million viewers
      nationwide and millions more around the world. The "Glory of Christmas" and
      "Glory of Easter" pageants, featuring elaborate sets, live animals and
      flying angels, drew thousands each year to the cathedral. At its peak, the
      church had 10,000 congregants in Orange County and millions nationwide and
      around the world. It was sought after by such celebrities as John Wayne,
      Andy Griffith, pianist Roger Williams, and Evel Knievel. [92]

  Note that the church has an $80 million budget. "By comparison, the city of
  Garden Grove, where the church stands, currently has an annual operating budget
  of about $90 million" 92]. However, it seems that even this budget wasn't
  enough.

      ...On Monday, the Cathedral filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. In addition to
      its financial travails, the church is faced with a crisis spurred by a rift
      between its founder and his son, who was meant to succeed his illustrious
      father. Robert A. Schuller's departure prompted some in the congregation to
      leave, causing a further drop in donations and revenue. The Cathedral is
      also struggling to find an inspirational leader to replace its aging leader
      in the pulpit and make itself attractive to younger church-goers.

      However, the church will first have to dig itself out of a considerable
      financial mess. The Cathedral has a $36 million mortgage to pay off and a
      total debt of $48 million. About $7.5 million of that debt is to unsecured
      creditors – a majority of them vendors and laborers whose bills have gone
      unpaid. [92]

  Not only did The "Glory of Christmas" and "Glory of Easter" pageants, featuring
  elaborate sets, live animals and flying angels, drew thousands each year to the
  cathedral, but these exceptionally good stewards of the Lord's money (sarcasm
  intended) "spent between $13 million and $15 million on a lavish production
  called "Creation." The show not only lost about $5 million, but was never
  staged again" [92].

  Crystal Cathedral vendors and what they're owed is available here ...(Copy and
  Paste ino Browser)
   http://www.ocregister.com/news/television-271375-inc-carin.html [TOP OF PAGE]

    InPlainSite.org Note.. Robert Schuller is the epitome of the wolf that Paul
     spoke about in Acts 20:29-30. Called an extraordinary minister by New Age
  leader Neale Donald Walsch, what Schuller believes about the Bible is actually
   a redefined, twisted view of it. His repentance is not Bible repentance; his
  new birth is not Bible regeneration; his Jesus and his salvation find no place
  in the Bible. Robert Schuller has, by promoting New Agers and their doctrines,
      done his part to lead the church further and further away from Biblical
                    doctrine down some very dark paths. Details

  
  Rodney Howard-Browne
  who has called himself the "bartender of holy laughter", along with with his
  wife Adonica, oversees his $16 million church, which they founded in 1996.

  The couple live in a six-bedroom, four-bath lakefront home on Cory Lake in
  northwest Tampa. The home includes a dock, spa, pool and gazebo. [93] See
  Section Counterfeit Revivals .. Move of God or demonic deception? [TOP OF PAGE]

  
  James MacDonald
  According to a February 2006 article in chicagomag.com (Emphasis Added)

      “The former U.S. senator Peter Fitzgerald has sold his house in Inverness,
      severing his lifelong ties with that northwest suburb....

      Fitzgerald and his wife paid $452,500 for the place in 1994, when he was a
      state senator. It has a designer kitchen commissioned by the Fitzgeralds, a
      two-story family room, and five bedrooms, each with its own bathroom. The
      backyard has a pool and a multilevel series of decks overlooking a private
      lake...

      Fitzgerald says that when he and his wife decided to sell the house last
      year, they did not state an asking price. Instead, their agent, Sheila
      Morgan of ReMax Unlimited Northwest, showed the property to five
      prospective buyers.

      James MacDonald, who is the senior pastor of Harvest Bible Chapel in
      Rolling Meadows and who also delivers a weekly sermon on a Christian radio
      broadcast, offered $1.9 million—“My minimum,” says Fitzgerald—and the deal
      closed this past October. “It’s a very exciting house,” says the Rev.
      MacDonald, “and it’s even better in the backyard.”” . [94] [TOP OF PAGE]

  
  Mike Murdock:
  (born April 18, 1946 in Lake Charles, Louisiana, is a televangelist and pastor
  of the Wisdom Center ministry based in Fort Worth, Texas.

  "Murdock has slipped in and out of the public's attention. He made a splash in
  the early 1980s on The PTL Club television program with Jim and Tammy Faye
  Bakker. Murdock, untouched by PTL's collapse in scandal, developed his own
  television ministry. Today, he still frequents the programs of more-successful
  televangelists, such as faith healer Benny Hinn".

  As of 04/11/2011, two of Murdock's books Wisdom for Crisis Times and 7 Laws You
  Must Honor to Have Uncommon Success (Discover the biblical keys for unlocking
  the supernatural favor of God in your life. Get ready to become an uncommon
  achiever!), were available on Benny Hinn's web site [95]

  The following is an excerpt from a 2003 article in the Fort Worth Star-Telegram
  By Darren Barbee. The article has been reprinted in it's entirety on the
  Trinity Foundation web site. [All Emphasis Added]

      President and director of the Mike Murdock Evangelistic Association, has
      had several luxury vehicles at his disposal. Some belong to him, and some
      are owned by the ministry. The BMW, work at least $69,000, was a gift,
      Murdock says, while the ministry bought the Jaguar. He says he got an idea
      that allowed him to buy the Cessna Citation 500, worth $300,000 to $500,000
      . Federal Aviation Administration documents show that the jet belongs to
      the ministry.

      Murdock likes to describe himself as a "Wal-Mart guy." But a $25,000 Rolex
      adorns his wrist. And he can shoot hoops on the "NBA-style" basketball
      court at his estate or take notes with a $4,500 fountain pen.

      Details of Murdock's lifestyle were pieced together from documents obtained
      by the Trinity Foundation, a televangelist watchdog group in Dallas; Denton
      County property-appraisal records; a report of a burglary at his home;
      interviews; and excerpts from his broadcasts and books. They show a man
      living a Hollywood lifestyle.

      Murdock says he drives a BMW 745, which typically sells for $69,000 to
      $75,000. He used to prefer driving a Porsche to the ministry. He has had at
      his disposal a ministry Corvette, Jaguar and Mercedes, Lincoln Continentals
      and, since August, a corporate jet valued at $300,000 to $500,000.

      Murdock lives in a Spanish-style, 3,177-square-foot adobe house that he
      calls Hacienda de Paz – or "House of Peace." He, not the ministry, owns it.
      Also on the grounds is a 1,660-square-foot building whose use is unclear.
      The 6.8-acre estate, east of Argyle, was valued at $482,027 by the Denton
      Central Appraisal District in 2002, documents show.

      Few get a good view of the estate. It is protected by a black wrought-iron
      fence. The gates are monogrammed with two M's – his initials. On the
      well-kept grounds, a path winds near a tennis court and two of at least
      four gazebos on the property. At various times, Murdock has had a camel, an
      antelope, a donkey, ducks, geese, a lion and dogs. Near one edge of his
      property, he once kept llamas in a paddock. He has also had koi and catfish
      at the estate. He had 24 speakers wired in trees so he could hear gospel
      music everywhere on the grounds, he said during a 1998 broadcast.

      Inside his home, Murdock has had several fish tanks, including a large
      saltwater aquarium. In the gym, Murdock can work out with his personal
      trainer. He can relax in front of his home theater or in a Jacuzzi. And he
      can enjoy the fountains in his pool and living room.

      Murdock once kept coin and jewelry collections valued at $125,000. He
      reported the information to the Denton County Sheriff's Department after a
      theft. Sheriff's spokesman Kevin Patton said investigators dropped the case
      because Murdock would not list what had been stolen.

      Murdock has a second Rolex watch, besides the $25,000 one he often wears,
      he said during an appearance Oct. 19 in Grapevine. He didn't state its
      value.

      Murdock has said he was given the watches, expensive suits, several
      Chevrolet Corvettes, the BMW and a rare Vetta Ventura sports car – one of
      19 made.

      From 1993 to 2000, IRS records show his compensation package averaged
      $241,685 a year, or about 9 percent of the $21,040,299 the ministry took in
      during that period. [96]

  And by way of comparison

      From 1997 to 1999, he drew from a $138,000 annual expense account, although
      records show that the ministry directly paid some of his expenses,
      including some travel.

      By comparison, in 2000, the combined expense accounts for the chief
      executive officers or directors of the five largest Christian nonprofit
      organizations – who oversaw a collective $1.5 billion in revenue – was
      $25,671.

      In 2000, Millard Fuller, president and CEO of Habitat for Humanity, oversaw
      an organization with $165 million in revenue and was paid $79,800 – $76,000
      in salary and $3,800 in contributions to a benefit plan.

      If he had taken home the same percentage of revenue that Murdock did that
      year, Fuller would have earned an extra $10 million. [96] [TOP OF PAGE]

  
  Rev. James Eugene Ewing
  Once a traveling tent-revival preacher, the Rev. James Eugene Ewing built a
  direct-mail empire from his mansion in Los Angeles that brings millions of
  dollars flowing into a Tulsa post office box. The approach reaped Ewing and his
  organization more than $100 million since 1993, including $26 million in 1999,
  the last year Saint Matthew's made its tax records public.

  Ewing's computerized mailing operation, Saint Matthew's Churches, mails more
  than 1 million letters per month, many to poor, uneducated people, while Ewing
  lives in a mansion and drives luxury cars.

  The letters contain an alluring promise of "seed faith": send Saint Matthew's
  your money and God will reward you with cash, a cure to your illness, a new
  home and other blessings. They often contain items such as prayer cloths, a
  "Jesus eyes handkerchief," golden coins, communion wafers and "sackcloth
  billfolds." Recipients are often warned to open the letters in private and not
  discuss them with others.

  The approach reaped Ewing and his organization a gross income of more than $100
  million since 1993, including $26 million in 1999, the last year Saint
  Matthew's made its tax records public. And while much of the money is spent on
  postage and salaries, Ewing's company receives nonprofit status and pays no
  federal taxes.

  Though Ewing claims it is a church, Saint Matthew's Churches, once called St.
  Matthew Publishing Inc., has no address other than a Tulsa post office box. It
  has two listed phone numbers in Tulsa and both are answered by a recorded
  religious message.

  "He capitalizes on the isolation of the loneliest and poorest members of our
  society, promising them magical answers to their fears and needs if only they
  will demonstrate their faith by sending him money," Anthony said. (Ole Anthony,
  founder of the Trinity Foundation. a nonprofit religious watchdog group)

  "He is, quite literally, the father of the modern-day 'seed-faith' concept that
  fuels the multibillion-dollar Christian industry known as the
  'health-and-wealth gospel.' "The only ones becoming rich are the men like
  Ewing." (Ole Anthony, founder of the Trinity Foundation. a nonprofit religious
  watchdog group). Ewing's flair for effective, dramatic direct-mail appeals won
  him jobs writing for evangelists including Tilton, Rex Humbard and "Rev. Ike."
  In many cases, the letters are identical but contain different signatures.

  The Trinity Foundation, which obtained copies of the identical letters, has
  dubbed Ewing "God's Ghostwriter."

      "We had nine different televangelists essentially sending out the same
      letter," Anthony said. "He (Ewing) makes most of his money by selling these
      packages to televangelists." Anthony said one Ewing letter, written for
      Humbard, brought in $64 for each copy mailed. Another mailing by Humbard
      contains a "sackcloth billfold" and asks recipients to mail a "seed
      offering" of $19 to a Boca Raton, Fla., post office box.

  A similar letter from Tilton also contained a "sackcloth billfold" but
  encouraged recipients to return a "seed of faith" of at least $709.00. Joyce
  said Ewing has written for many other evangelists. [97] [TOP OF PAGE]

  
  The Hucksters From Yesteryear

  Oral Roberts
  "Roberts' two California homes, partly for security reasons, were not much
  discussed by the ministry. Oral also remained sensitive about press criticism
  of his lifestyle. His house in Palm Springs, purchased for $285,000 and
  financed by a Tulsa bank, was his only privately owned home. In 1982 ORU
  endowment funds were used to purchase a $2,400,000 house in a high-security
  development in Beverly Hills. Considered a potentially profitable investment,
  the house served as Oral's West Coast office and residence." (p. 355)

  "Oral's homes in California inevitably kept alive the old questions about his
  personal wealth and lifestyle. While probably not as probing as the press had
  been fifteen years earlier, reporters still took a keen interest in Oral's
  financial affairs. In 1981, the Associated Press published Roberts' personal
  income figures for the preceding five years--ranging from $70,000 in 1976 to
  $178,000 in 1978.

  "Here is a portrait of the real Oral Roberts, the man not too many of his
  admirers know. He dresses in Brioni suits that cost $500 to $1000; walks in
  $100 shoes; lives in a $250,000 house in Tulsa and has a million dollar home in
  Palm Springs; wears diamond rings and solid gold bracelets employees `airbrush'
  out of his publicity photos; drives $25,000 automobiles which are replaced
  every 6 months; flies around the country in a $2 million fanjet falcon; has
  membership, as does his son Richard, in `the most prestigious and elite country
  club in Tulsa,' the Southern Hills (the membership fee alone was $18,000 for
  each, with $130 monthly dues) and in `the ultra-posh Thunderbird Country Club
  in Rancho Mirage, California' (both father and son joined when memberships were
  $20,000 each--they are now $25,000); and plays games of financial hanky-panky
  that have made him and his family members independently wealthy (millionaires)
  for life. (When his daughter and son-in-law were killed, they left a $10
  million estate!)" (Evangelist R.L. Sumner's review of Give Me that Prime- time
  Religion by Jerry Sholes)

  "In addition to his healthy income, derived mostly from book royalties, Oral
  continued to enjoy generous expense accounts: `The Robertses wear expensive
  clothes and jewelry and travel in a company-owned eight-passenger fanjet.'
  [98]. [TOP OF PAGE]

  
  Jim and Tammy Bakker
  The Bakkers bought mansions and luxury cars and the doghouse was
  air-conditioned. [99]. “Jim Bakker, who was convicted of wire fraud and served
  five years in prison, said he plans to start another TV ministry, this time in
  Branson, Mo”. [100] [TOP OF PAGE]

  
  Robert Tilton
  Robert Tilton (born June 7, 1946 in Dallas, Texas) is an American televangelist
  who achieved notoriety in the 1980s and early 1990s through his
  infomercial-styled religious television program Success-N-Life, which at its
  peak in 1991 aired in all 235 American TV markets (daily in the majority of
  them), brought in nearly $80 million per year, and was described as "the
  fastest growing television ministry in America." However, within two years
  after ABC's Primetime Live aired an expose into Tilton's fundraising practices,
  which started a series of investigations into the ministry, Tilton's program
  was no longer being broadcast.

  Tilton later returned to television via his new version of Success-N-Life
  airing on BET and The Word Network. In 2008, Tilton stopped broadcasting his
  program on television and is now utilising internet media alone for his
  broadcasting.

  Excerpts from a 1997 piece in the Dallas Observer

      The segment on Tilton was by far the most damning. At its heart was the
      accusation that Tilton never saw the vast majority of prayer requests and
      personal correspondence sent to him by faithful viewers. On the air, Tilton
      promised to pray over each miracle-request. But on the ground, ABC said it
      found thousands of those requests and viewers' letters dumped in garbage
      bins in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Checks, money orders, and in some cases cash, food
      stamps, and even wedding rings sent by followers had been removed for
      deposit at a nearby bank.

      Lawsuits from outraged followers quickly followed, along with further media
      exposes concerning dumped prayer requests. (Tilton claimed the trashed
      prayer requests were part of a plot against the church.) State Attorney
      General Dan Morales launched a fraud investigation of Tilton's ministry,
      and the FBI and U.S. Postal Service subpoenaed the church's records the day
      after the ABC broadcast” ….

     See More about the Undercover investigation http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
                      Robert_Tilton#Undercover_investigation

      ... The problem is that mailing lists grow stale when the TV screen stays
      dark too long. Now, though, it's bright once more. Tilton's toll-free
      prayer line is up and running, and his Tulsa, Oklahoma, post office box
      awaits a hoped-for onslaught from the faithful. Every weekday between 11
      a.m. and noon Eastern Standard Time, a fiberoptic telephone line carries
      the voice and image of Robert Tilton out of a small TV studio in Miami
      Beach. The signal runs under city streets and across Biscayne Bay until it
      reaches WPBT-Channel 2, a public television station in North Miami. A
      for-profit affiliate of the station called Comtel beams Tilton's brand-new
      Success-N-Life show up through the heavens to a satellite transponder.

      ....There are a few titillating hints in the Broward County court files: a
      trio of traffic tickets handed out over the years (one for doing 93 in a 55
      m.p.h. zone on Christmas Eve, another for "failure to use due care," and a
      third this April for driving without registration documents.) Computer
      research reveals 12 addresses used by Tilton in the last decade, three of
      them in Fort Lauderdale. But two of those are commercial mail drops, and
      the last, a $500,000 waterfront vacation home in the Rio Vista, Florida,
      neighborhood, was sold last year as part of Tilton's divorce settlement
      with his first wife; ditto for his 38-foot fishing boat.

      Federal records show that Tilton bought a 50-foot Carver motor yacht last
      year in Fort Lauderdale for $500,000. In July 1996, he told a judge in
      Dallas that he was living aboard and making $4,000 monthly payments on the
      boat, which he named the Liberty Leigh. (He is presently building a
      two-story home on a $1.39 million oceanfront lot on an island in Biscayne
      Bay off Miami Beach, and his ministry owns a 50-foot yacht. His ministry
      takes in about $24 million a year) [101] [TOP OF PAGE]

  
  Other CEO Salaries
  “Charity Navigator, America's premier independent charity evaluator, works to
  advance a more efficient and responsive philanthropic marketplace by evaluating
  the financial health of America's largest charities”. The compensation Package
  of the following CEO’s is based on information reported on various
  organization's most recent Form 990. The compensation package includes salary,
  cash bonuses, and unusually large expense accounts and other allowances.
  (www.charitynavigator.org).

  As near as we can tell Paul Crouch is only out salaried by

  Peter Popoff (President of Peter Popoff Ministries)… $628,732, His wife makes
  $203,029 as Executive Business Administrator. Do the math and remember that not
  to many years ago Peter Popoff’s claim to receive ‘messages from God’, turned
  out to be messages from a concealed transmitter. How do frauds make this much
  money? And, of course, John Hagee [$842,005 in compensation and $414,485] in
  benefits. (Above)

  Other salaries include

  Billy Graham [Director and Chairman of the Billy Graham Evangelistic
  Association (BGEA)] … $406,830.

  William Franklin Graham III [as President and CEO of the Billy Graham
  Evangelistic Association (BGEA)] ... $94,998.
  William Franklin Graham III [as President and CEO of Samaritan's Purse]
  …$304,308
  Total Package… $399,306.

  Richard E. Stearns [President of World Vision] … $366,892 in 2004.

  Jack Van Impe, President of  Jack Van Impe Ministries International … $153,143
  His wife Rexella Van Impe [secretary] .. $85,971.
  Total Package … $239,114

  Hank Hanegraaff [President of The Christian Research Institute (CRI)]  …
  $210,192,
  His wife Kathy Hanegraaff [Director of Planning The Christian Research
  Institute (CRI)] … $127,431
  Total Package … $337,623.

  Ravi Zacharias, President of Ravi Zacharias International Ministries...
  $191,498.

  Ned Graham [president of East Gates International] … $104,337
  His wife Christina K. Graham [Director of Operations of East Gates
  International] … $46,453
  Total package …  $150,790.

  Bob Larson, President of Bob Larson Ministries... 133,430

  Charles F. Stanley, President and Chairman of InTouch Ministries was paid
  $123,222.

   While Both CRI and Hank Hanegraaf (The Bible Answer Man Show) provide
  invaluable contributions to Christian Apologetics, sadly much controversy has
  swirled around Hank’s finances. See Greed: Case Study in Bad: CRI by Bernie
  Dehler, Executive Director of FreeGoodNews.com. http://
  freegoodnews.blogspot.com/2005/01/greed-case-study-in-bad-cri.html [TOP OF PAGE
  ]

  
  They're Leavin' On a Jet Plane
  An article on the 2004 wittenburgdoor.com site talks about the Entry-Level,
  Starter Jets

  ENTRY-LEVEL, STARTER JETS
  Up-and-coming Tilton impersonator Paula White owns a Hawker-Siddeley "Jet
  Dragon" – aptly named for the trail of smoke it would leave IF it could fly or
  IF she could get parts for this 1965-vintage relic. Truly a vanity purchase,
  it's been grounded since she bought it, just so she can SAY she has a jet.

  THE CESSNA CITATION CLUB
  · Copeland proteges Jesse Duplantis and Jerry Savelle, plus Florida upstart
  Mark Bishop, each fly their own Cessna Citation 500. They cruise at 400 mph
  with a range of 1,400 miles and carry a price tag of about $1.25 million each.

  THE GRUMMAN GULFSTREAM GUYS
  · Fred Price, Creflo Dollar and Brother Benny Hinn all have their own Grumman
  Gulfstream II's. With a two-man crew and 19 passengers, these babies cruise at
  581 mph with a range of 4,275 miles. Used, they're worth about $4.5 million
  each.

  THE BIG-BUCK BOYS, THE CHALLENGER 600s
  · Paul Crouch owns the current Queen of the Flying-Televangelist Fleet – a
  Bombardier Challenger 604. Carrying a crew of two plus 19 passengers, she
  cruises at 529 mph with a range of 3,860 miles. She's valued at $16.5 million,
  not including Paul's "special interior remodeling."

  · The late Ken Hagin's Challenger 601, about 10 years older than Paul's, is
  "only" worth about $9.6 million.· Recently exposed uberspender Joyce Meyer has
  her own Challenger 600. A full 18 years older than Paul's, this one's only
  worth a paltry $4.5 million. Let's hear it for Joyce's frugal stewardship!

  KENNY COPELAND – UNDISPUTED KING OF THE FLYING COWBOYS
  · His Cessna Citation 550 Bravo (valued at $3.4 million), PLUS his Grumman
  Gulfstream II (worth $4.5 million) AND his Cessna Golden Eagle AND his Beech
  E-55 AND his assorted lesser aircraft AND his own airport all add up to untold
  millions of poor folks' dollars. But Kenny's masterstroke is the fact that he's
  now telling the faithful that God wants him and wife Gloria to EACH have their
  own Cessna Citation Ten super-jets. Flying just below the speed of sound, these
  state-of-the-art flying palaces carry a base sticker price of $20 million! That
  means when "God" has his way, the widows and orphans will have "invested" just
  about $50-60 million in Kenny's Heavenly Air Force. [102]

  UPDATE: “Over the past several years Kenneth and Gloria Copeland have been
  believing God for a Cessna Citation X jet—a plane they would be able to use in
  fulfilling their God-appointed assignment and the calling on Kenneth Copeland
  Ministries to take the Word of God to the world—from the top to the bottom and
  all the way around. At 2 p.m. on Friday, July 22, 2005, we made the initial
  deposit and signed the order for Citation X #240. We will take delivery on the
  plane the first week of March 2006”! [103] [TOP OF PAGE]

  
  Conclusion
  “There are bound to be some people who will read this article and say to
  themselves, "So the leadership live in nice houses or nice areas, so what? This
  is God's way of blessing them. They deserve this for leading God's people." I
  wonder if these people ever really stop to think about what they are saying? Do
  they really believe that God would bless those in leadership with lifestyles
  that totally contradict everything that Jesus taught. He and the men who led
  the first century church led by example. They were servant leaders. Ask
  yourself if any of the apostles would've chosen pricey homes or affluent areas
  for themselves. More to the point, would Jesus have done so? Ask yourself if
  the apostles would have used the contributions and tithes of the people in
  order to have done so? More to the point, would Jesus have done so?” (Timothy
  Greeson. Leadership Lifestyles of the International Churches of Christ.)  [Also
  See The Prosperity Doctrine ..Does God Want Us To Be Rich?]

  (Apparently the International Churches of Christ also has problems with
  extravagant lifestyles of some of the leadership. See
  http://www.newcovpub.com/icc/icc_LeadershipLifestyles.htm. (Copy and paste into
  your browser)   [TOP OF PAGE]

   

  End Notes
  Unless otherwise specified, all links were accessed April 12th 2011.

  [01] About Us. The TBN Story. http://www.tbn.org/about-us/the-tbn-story

  [02] http://www.guidestar.org/FinDocuments/2006/952/844/
  2006-952844062-03b75d90-9.pdf

  [03] Teri Sforza, Register staff writer. God's quid pro quo? Orange County
  Register Communications.
  http://taxdollars.ocregister.com/2008/08/06/jesus-says-send-me-money/

  [04] Mike Oppenheimer. Let Us Reason Ministries. Does TBN represent Jesus?
  http://www.letusreason.org/pent49.htm

  [05] Charity Navigator

  2010 CEO Compensation Study. http://www.charitynavigator.org/index.cfm?bay=
  studies.ceo

  [06] TBN Televangelists Buy $5,000,000 Home

  Los Angeles Times, Nov 4th. 2001. LA Times no longer carries the story but it
  can be read on other sites.
  http://www.deceptioninthechurch.com/crouchhome.html  OR http://
  sharingtruth.wordpress.com/2008/08/21/paul-and-jan-crouch-of-tbn/

  [07] Pastor's Empire Built on Acts of Faith, and Cash. Reprinted from the Los
  Angeles Times September 19, 2004. By William Lobdell.
  Times Staff Writer. http://www.trinityfi.org/press/latimes04.html

  [08] Teri Sforza, Register staff writer. Earthly kingdom: Trinity's $167
  million in real estate. August 15th, 2008,
  http://taxdollars.ocregister.com/2008/08/15/
  earthly-kingdom-trinitys-167-million-in-real-estate/

  [09] Kim Christensen and Carol McGraw. TBN's headquarters built on grand scale.
  The Orange County Register. June 2, 1998. The original article is not longer
  available, but can be read at http://www.religionnewsblog.com/8784/
  tbns-headquarters-built-on-grand-scale

  [10] Kim Christensen and Carol McGraw. Private suite Is A Sight To Behold,
  Carpenters Say The Orange County Register. June 2, 1998

  [11] Joel Osteen. http://www.lakewood.cc/pages/new-here/joel-osteen.aspx

  [12] Our Ministry. http://www.joelosteen.com/About/Pages/OurMinistry.aspx

  [13] Pat Sullivan, AP. America's largest church opens in former arena. Posted 7
  /14/2005. Copyright 2005 The Associated Press.
   http://www.usatoday.com/news/nation/2005-07-14-largest-church_x.htm. Emphasis
  Added

  [14] Lillian Kwon. Christian Post Reporter "Interview: Joel Osteen on the
  Future of America's Churches and Him Pastoring One".
  http://www.christianpost.com/news/
  interview-joel-osteen-on-the-future-of-americas-churches-and-him-pastoring-one-25806
  /

  [15] Bradley Olson And Moises Mendoza. City Council OKs sale of ex-Compaq to
  Lakewood. Houston Chronicle. March 31, 2010.
  http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/life/religion/new/6937849.html

  [16] 60 Minutes. Joel Osteen Answers His Critics. June 8, 2008.
  http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2007/10/11/60minutes/main3358652_page2.shtml

  [17] Earthly Empires... How evangelical churches are borrowing from the
  business playbook.
  http://www.businessweek.com/magazine/content/05_21/b3934001_mz001.htm

  [18] Jennifer Mathieu. Power House. Apr 4 2002. Houston Press.
  http://www.houstonpress.com/2002-04-04/news/power-house/5/

  [19] Damon Whitsell. Movin' On Up: Joel Osteen moves to $10.5 million River
  Oaks Mansion. July 9, 2010.  http://thewordonthewordoffaithinfoblog.com/2010/07
  /09/movin-on-up-joel-osteen-moves-to-10-5-million-river-oaks-mansion/

  [20] Clifford Pugh. July 2010. After move to $10.5 million River Oaks mansion,
  Joel Osteen offers Tanglewood land for $1.1 million. http://culturemap.com/
  newsdetail/
  07-04-10-after-move-to-river-oaks-joel-osteen-wants-to-sell-tanglewood-land-for-11-million
  /

  [21] America's 10 Biggest Megachurches.
  http://www.forbes.com/2009/06/26/
  americas-biggest-megachurches-businessmegachurches_slide_2.html

  [22] Grassley Seeks Information from Six Media-based Ministries.
  http://grassley.senate.gov/news/Article.cfm?customel_dataPageID_1502=12011

  [23] Laurie Goodstein. Senator Questioning Ministries on Spending. November 7,
  2007.
  http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/07/us/07ministers.html?_r=1&adxnnl=1&adxnnlx=
  1194793454-6tPYUNRiM/1x2TAAwh+dEg

  [24] Sen. Grassley probes televangelists' finances. The Associated Press.
  Posted 11/7/2007
  http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2007-11-07-televangelist-probe_N.htm

  [25] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kenneth_Copeland

  [26] http://www.kcm.org/about/index.php?p=about

  [27] Jay Gormley, Investigation Of 2 North Texas Ministries Released. CBS 11
  News.
  http://dfw.cbslocal.com/2011/01/06/
  investigation-of-two-north-texas-ministries-released/

  [28] Suzy Jagger. Televangelist Kenneth Copeland refuses to render unto taxman.
  July 7, 2008.
  http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/faith/article4281949.ece

  [29] Senate Finance Committee, Minority Staff Review of Eagle Mountain
  International Church  d/b/a Kenneth Copeland Ministries. (Prepared by Lynda F.
  Simmons)  http://cbsdallas.files.wordpress.com/2011/01/
  emic-copeland-01-5-11.pdf OR

  http://finance.senate.gov/newsroom/ranking/download/?id=
  d12db357-ce3f-49f8-babb-4134ff994e50

  [30] SFC's internal memo, to Senator Grassley and the Senate Finance Committee,
  from Theresa Pattara & Sean Barnett. January 6th, 2011.
  http://finance.senate.gov/newsroom/ranking/download/?id=
  1f92d378-baa2-440d-9fbd-333cdc5d85fc

  [31] Televangelist's family prospers from ministry. Texas religious empire
  under scrutiny over its tangle of kinship. Associated Press/July 26, 2008.
  http://www.rickross.com/reference/kcm/kcm8.html

  [32] Suzy Jagger. Televangelist Kenneth Copeland refuses to render unto taxman.
  July 7, 2008.
  http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/faith/article4281949.ece

  [33] Web site of World Changers Church. About Our Pastors... Creflo A. & Taffi
  L. Dollar.
  http://www.worldchangers.org/About-Creflo-and-Taffi.aspx

  [34] Michael Luo. Preaching a Gospel of Wealth In a Glittery Market, New York.
  Published: January 15, 2006.
  http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=
  9D02E5D7143FF936A25752C0A9609C8B63

  [35] Senate Finance Committee, Minority Staff Review of World Changers Church
  International (WCCI)

  (Creflo and Taffi Dollar). (Prepared by Lynda F. Simmons)
  http://finance.senate.gov/newsroom/ranking/download/?id=
  bedb7313-be71-4bfe-9eb5-b929710f0fa0

  [36] Popular TV preachers. 11/18/2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch. (STLtoday.com.)
  http://www.rickross.com/reference/meyer/meyer19.html. republished with the
  permission of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch

  [37] John Blake. The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, Mar. 5, 2000. Dollar and the
  Gospel.
  http://www.rickross.com/reference/tv_preachers/tv_preachers16.html

  [38] Rowland Croucher and others· Rev. Creflo Dollar Jr. May 19, 2004.
  http://jmm.aaa.net.au/articles/12789.htm

  [39] http://www.mwza.com/creflo-dollarbishop-eddie-long-investigated/

  [40] Michelle Bearden And Baird Helgeson. Of Faith, Fame & Fortune. Published:
  May 20, 2007. Tampa Bay Online.
  http://news.tbo.com/news/metro/MGB9CH2XW1F.html  OR  http://www.trinityfi.org/
  press/whites01.html

  [41] The New York Times. The Empire And Ego Of Donald Trump. August 7, 1983.
  http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=
  9C05E7D91E39F934A3575BC0A965948260&pagewanted=2

  [42] Sherri Day. Questions tarnish rise to top. July 15, 2007.
  http://www.sptimes.com/2007/07/15/Hillsborough/Questions_tarnish_ris.shtml

  [43] Message From Tyra: The Woman Who Got Me Out of Bed.
  http://tyrashow.warnerbros.com/2006/10/message_from_tyra_the_woman_wh.php?page=
  8

  [44] Paula White: Unable to Blush. October 21, 2006.
  http://www.apostasyalert.org/REFLECTIONS/Paula_White_Blush.htm

  [45] Baird Helgeson And Michelle Bearden. Financial Walls Closing In On Church.
  Tampa Bay Online. November 6, 2008.
  http://www2.tbo.com/content/2008/nov/06/062254/
  tampas-without-walls-church-faces-foreclosure/news-breaking/

  [46] Lillian Kwon|Christian Post Reporter. Paula White Breaks Silence on
  Probes, Divorce, Benny Hinn. April 01 2011.
  http://www.christianpost.com/news/
  paula-white-breaks-silence-on-probes-divorce-benny-hinn-49671/

  [47] Paula White Takes over Dying Without Walls International Church in FL.
  July 12, 2009.
  http://blackchristiannews.com/news/2009/07/
  paula-white-takes-over-dying-without-walls-international-church-in-fl.html

  [48] Eric Young. Christian Post Reporter. Paula White Returns to Lead Ailing
  Megachurch.
  http://www.christianpost.com/news/
  paula-white-returns-to-lead-ailing-megachurch-39668/

  [49] Benny Hinn Ministries. This Is Your Day. http://www.bennyhinn.org/
  television/tiyd.cfm

  [50] Gillian Flaccus. Benny Hinn Divorce: Wife Suzanne Hinn Files For Divorce
  From Televangelist.  TheHuffingtonPost.com.  02/18/10 09:22
  http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2010/02/18/
  benny-hinn-divorce-wife-s_n_468296.html

  [51] http://www.ministrywatch.com/mw2.1/pdf/MWDA_053105_BennyHinn.pdf

  [52] Not a Preacher's Life. by Michael Barrick, Managing Director of Education
  & Communications. Wall Watchers. 
  http://www.ministrywatch.com/mw2.1/pdf/Reflections_BennyHinn.pdf

  [53] Onward Christian Soldier By William Lobdell. Reprinted from the Los
  Angeles Times December 8, 2002.
  http://www.trinityfi.org/press/latimes01.html

  [54] Benny Hinn has millions of believers and millions in donations. NBC News,
  Dec. 27, 2002.
  http://www.religionnewsblog.com/1684/
  where-does-world-famous-televangelists-money-go. OR
  http://www.rickross.com/reference/hinn/hinn21.html

  [55] William Lobdell ...Times staff writer. The Price of Healing. Reprinted
  from the Los Angeles Times July 27, 2003.
   http://www.trinityfi.org/press/latimes02.html

  [56] Marthinus van Vuuren. God bless your credit card. South Africa/July 20,
  2008.
  http://www.rickross.com/reference/hinn/hinn70.html

  [57] Hinn letter on reforms.
  http://finance.senate.gov/newsroom/ranking/download/?id=
  8e055073-52f2-4c1f-8290-b4fc063b0f8a  
  OR See http://www.rickross.com/reference/hinn/hinn79.html

  [58] http://www.bennyhinn.org/finances/articledesc.cfm?id=992)

  [59] OC televangelist Benny Hinn gets kudos for 'financial reforms'. January
  12th, 2011.
  http://taxdollars.ocregister.com/2011/01/12/
  oc-televangelist-benny-hinn-gets-kudos-for-financial-reforms/72048/

  [60] Rene Stutzman, Publisher: Faith healer violated our morality clause. The
  Orlando Sentinel/February 17, 2011.
  http://articles.orlandosentinel.com/2011-02-17/news/
  os-benny-hinn-book-suit-20110217_1_hinn-lives-benny-hinn-televangelist OR http:
  //www.rickross.com/reference/hinn/hinn80.html

  [61] About Joyce. http://www.joycemeyer.org/AboutUs/JoyceBio.aspx

  [62] Christopher Tritto. Growth overseas adds $3 million to Meyer's coffers.
  St. Louis Business Journal.
  http://www.bizjournals.com/stlouis/stories/2010/08/09/story3.html

  [63] Matt Allen. Joyce Meyer Ministries. St. Louis Business Journal. April 12,
  2007.
  http://www.bizjournals.com/stlouis/stories/2007/04/16/focus11.html

  [64] Deirdre Shesgreen. Joyce Meyer Ministries is a target of GOP senator's
  probe. St. Louis Post-Dispatch, USA. Nov. 6, 2007.
  www.stltoday.com

  [65] Ellen Soeteber, Editor and Arnie Robbins, Managing Editor. "To our
  readers, an apology". St. Louis Post-Dispatch/June 19, 2005. http://
  www.rickross.com/reference/meyer/meyer24.html

  [66] Carolyn Tuft and Bill Smith. From Fenton to fortune in the name of God. 
  St. Louis Post-Dispatch/November 15, 2003.
  http://www.rickross.com/reference/meyer/meyer27.html]

  [67] Web site of the New Birth Missionary Baptist Church http://
  www.newbirth.org/about/bishop_eddie_long

  [68] New York Times. James C. Mckinley And Robbie Brown. Sex Scandal Threatens
  a Georgia Pastor's Empire. September 25, 2010. http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/
  26/us/26pastor.html

  [69] John Blake. Bishop's charity generous to bishop

  New Birth's Long received $3 million. Atlanta Journal-Constitution/August 28,
  2005.
  http://www.rickross.com/reference/general/general768.html

  [70] James C. Mckinley And Robbie Brown. Sex Scandal Threatens a Georgia
  Pastor's Empire. September 25, 2010. New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/
  2010/09/26/us/26pastor.html

  [71] Bishop Eddie Long benefits from his own church's charity. Metro Atlanta /
  State News Wednesday, September 22, 2010.
  http://www.ajc.com/news/2005-ajc-report-bishop-619032.html

  [72] CNN Wire Staff. Men allege sexual coercion by prominent Atlanta pastor.
  September 21, 2010. http://www.cnn.com/2010/CRIME/09/21/georgia.pastor.abuse/?
  hpt=Sbin

  [73] Larry Hartstein and Mike Morris. Bishop Eddie Long | Lawsuits are talk of
  Atlanta. The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Wednesday, September 22, 2010.
  http://www.ajc.com/news/bishop-eddie-long-lawsuits-618703.html

  [74] Greg Bluestein (Associated Press Writer). 4th Man Sues Ga. Megachurch
  Pastor. September 24, 2010.
  http://abcnews.go.com/US/wireStory?id=11721274

  [75] TDJ Enterprises. http://www.tdjakes.com/bishops-bio/

  [76] Kaylois Henry.  Bishop Jakes is ready. Are you? The nation's hottest
  preacher brings his message to Dallas. June 20 1996.
   http://www.dallasobserver.com/1996-06-20/news/bishop-jakes-is-ready-are-you/
  full

  [77] MSNBC Report. TD Jakes and Joel Osteen Enrich Themselves in Jesus' Name.
  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lGmLFSPkyhs

  [78] Libby Copeland ... Washington Post Staff Writer. With Gifts From God.
  Sunday, March 25, 2001; Page F01.
  www.trinityfi.org/press/tdjakes01.html

  [79] Jim Jones, "Rising-star evangelist ministers to interracial congregation,"
  The Fort Worth Star Telegram, Aug 11, 1996. As quoted in "Get Ready" For T.D.
  Jakes The Velcro Bishop With Another Gospel. by G. Richard Fisher. http://
  www.pfo.org/jakes.html

  [80] Kaylois Henry, "Bishop Jakes Is Ready. Are You?," The Dallas Observer
  magazine, June 20-26, 1996, pg. 19. As quoted in "Get Ready" For T.D. Jakes The
  Velcro Bishop With Another Gospel. by G. Richard Fisher http://www.pfo.org/
  jakes.html

  [81] ibid. Page 22

  [82] Pastor Hagee. Senior Pastor Cornerstone Church.
  http://www.jhm.org/ME2/Sites/dirmod.asp?sid=&type=gen&mod=Core+Pages&gid=
  A6CD4967199A42D9B65B1B08851C402B&SiteID=8112722C039B4E508F0AB8552B898895

  [83] http://www.jhm.org/ME2/Sites/dirmod.asp?sid=&nm=&type=Commerce&mod=
  GenComProductCatalog
  &mid=B4917A2439434EC69D686ECC2AA0136A&SiteId=21B0B031B0D748C79CC5376D4F7EF24C&
  tier=3&id=
  3FF41E0881314514B59AF25520FB16F2

  [84] Analisa Nazareno. Critics say John Hagee's compensation is too high. San
  Antonio Express-News/June 20, 2003.
  http://www.rickross.com/reference/tv_preachers/tv_preachers7.html

  [85] Pat Robertson. http://www.rapidnet.com/~jbeard/bdm/exposes/robertson/
  general.htm

  [86] Grant McLaren. Matching mission and machine - Pro Pilot Magazine, November
  2005

  [87] She Tells It Like It Is. A Cinderella Wedding By Vanessa Lowe Robinson.
  Charisma Magazine.
  http://www.charismamag.com/index.php/covers/260-cover-story/
  7987-she-tells-it-like-it-is

  [88] http://skepticalbrotha.wordpress.com/2007/08/27/
  bishop-weeks-the-devil-made-me-do-it/

  [89] D. Aileen Dodd. Juanita Bynum pays $32K in taxes, plans to open spa. The
  Atlanta Journal-Constitution, USA. Oct. 19, 2007.
  http://www.religionnewsblog.com/19691/juanita-bynum-32

  [90] J.P. Gudel. A Profile of Robert Schuller. Forward, Spring 1985.
  http://www.rapidnet.com/~jbeard/bdm/exposes/schuller/general.htm

  [91] The Crystal Cathedral. http://www.seeing-stars.com/churches/
  crystalcathedral.shtml

  [92] [Deepa Bharath. Rifts, debt tear at Crystal Cathedral. The Orange County
  Register. Published: Oct. 23, 2010
  http://www.ocregister.com/news/-272563--.html?cb=1287986971]

  [93] Popular TV preachers. republished with the permission of St. Louis
  Post-Dispatch/November 18, 2003.
  http://www.rickross.com/reference/meyer/meyer19.html

  [94] www.chicagomag.com February 2006. Link is no longer valid

  [95] http://www.bennyhinn.org/products/product_detail.cfm?itemid=236 and
  http://www.bennyhinn.org/products/product_detail.cfm/itemid/719

  [96] PROFIT in the pulpit By Darren Barbee

  Star-Telegram Staff Writer. Fort Worth Star-Telegram, 3/02/2003. Reprinted
  http://www.trinityfi.org/press/murdock01.html

  [97] From the Tulsa World Special Report: Reaping from faith By Ziva
  Branstetter World Projects Editor. 4/27/2003.
  http://www.trinityfi.org/press/tulsaworld01.html

  [98] Oral Roberts: An American Life", by David Edwin Harrell, Jr., Bloomington,
  Indiana: Indiana University Press 47405

  [99] The New Straits Times, 6th October 1989 The New Paper,6th October 1989

  [100] Knight Ridder Newspapers, Sep. 19, 2002

  [101] Sean Rowe. Second Coming.. A jet-settin', Scotch-sippin' Robert Tilton
  washes up in South Florida--and he still wants your money. Thursday, Nov 6
  1997. http://www.dallasobserver.com/1997-11-06/news/second-coming/
  OR http://www.forgottenword.org/tilton.html

  [102] Loser of the Bi-Month by Pete Evans & Todd Bates. Issue #193 May/June
  2004
  http://archives.wittenburgdoor.com/archives/airmen.html

  [103] http://elitecxteam.org/update.php. Link is no longer valid

* [clearpixel]            [clea] *  [clea] [clearpixel]                      [clearpixel]  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  www.inplainsite.org                                    Catholicism-Back
                                                Index To TBN and The Tele-evangelists
                                  

                                  

                                  

                                  

                                  

