[INS::INS]

Similar Pages:

Time to Move On: Religion Has Cost Too MuchThe Causes of Fundamentalism,
Intolerance and Extremism in World Religions, and Some SolutionsReligion,
Violence, Crime and Mass SuicideDo We Need Religion to Have Good Morals?
Christian Moral Theory and Morality in Action: Biblical Morals and Social
DisasterGrowing Fundamentalism in Islam: How Moderates are Subjugated by Muslim
Hardliners

Religion, Violence, Crime and Mass Suicide

Like this page:


Share this page:

Read / Write LJ Comments

[Vexen_Crab]Published by
Vexen Crabtree
(2009).

Click to view public FB Page

Author:

Religious adherents no doubt find that their actions in life are influenced by
their religious beliefs. The association between religion and violence is
long-standing. This text looks more at individual acts of violence and crime,
and not mass acts such as the Crusades or Holy Wars, as these become too
intertwined with politics and culture.

 1. Violence and Religion
     1. Religious Wars: Politics and Culture (Example: Nigeria and India)
     2. The Role of Strange Beliefs
     3. Africa: A Modern Christian/Muslim Front
     4. The Divine Endorsements of Violence
     5. Monotheism and Violent Intolerance
 2. High Rates of Imprisonment
     1. Incarceration, Poverty, Intelligence and Religion
     2. Why Are There So Many Catholics in Prison?
     3. Discords Between Religious Belief and Law
 3. Sex Crimes
 4. Mass Murder and Suicide Cults
     1. Mass Delusion: 276 Child Murders and Over 600 Adult Suicides: Jim
        Jones' Peoples Temple
     2. Apocalyptic Survivalism: The Branch Davidian's Shoot-Out and the Sarin
        Gas Attack
     3. Rejection of the World and Mass Suicides: Order of the Solar Temple and
        Heaven's Gate
     4. The Role of Reactionary Mass Media in Isolating Idealistic Groups
 5. Scriptural Justifications for Murder
     1. Hinduism
     2. Buddhism
     3. Christianity
     4. Islam
 6. Conclusions
     1. Religious Authority and Idealism
     2. Intelligence
     3. Prevention
 7. Links

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

1. Violence and Religion

1.1. Religious Wars: Politics and Culture (Example: Nigeria and India)

Many religious wars have a political and cultural component. Often it is not
just two groups of people fighting over religion, but, one culture fighting
another. Some defend religion in general by saying that societal divisions are
the main factor in such conflicts. However, such divisions are themselves
worsened by the adhering to religious identities. Religion is not only just
another way of separating them, but, it is often intrinsic to the religion that
non-believers are less moral or less worthy. It seems that religious texts
actively promote sectarianism, and, given that this is the case, even where
cultural factors play a role in mass violence it seems that religion often
makes it worse and is sometimes the cause of the conflict in the first place.

For example in Nigeria from 1990 to 2007, 20,000 have been killed specifically
in the name of religion[1]. The country is divided between Christians and
Muslim, and religious identity is highly important, more so than nationalism or
any other element of identity. These problems are a feature of the entire
region. This data comes from a report by The Economist in 2007, they summarize:
"Evangelical Christians, backed by American collection-plate money, are surging
northwards, clashing with Islamic fundamentalists, backed by Saudi
petrodollars, surging southwards"[1]. Although Africa is the front-line, both
groups of believers are supported financially and organisationally by their
respective Churches around the world. Just as Iran and Israel support armed
groups that antagonize each other in various countries of the Middle East,
Africa is another front line between Islamic and Christian battles for power.

The them-and-us attitude is not just prevalent in monotheistic religions. India
has seen much violence in the name of religion since the 1990s, as Hindu
religionists are becoming increasingly anti-Christian and anti-Muslim. Churches
have been burned down, Missionaries violently repelled, priests murdered, tens
of thousands of Christians have fled their homes and in many states laws exist
to make it harder to convert to Christianity, in contradiction to all ideas of
equality and freedom of religion. Converts to Christianity are typically very
poor, yet, there is an uproar against expanding welfare schemes that cover poor
Hindus.[2]. If the instigators and the victims both decided to give up
religion, then, there would be one less label for those fellow Indians to use
to divide each other.

It is not the case that the "real" problem is with culture or language rather
than with religion. National problems with communities that speak different
languages are made much more problematic when those differences also coincide
with religious differences, such as in Sri Lanka, where Hindu Tamils are
opposed to Buddhist Sinhalese[3]. "The former Yugoslavia has broken into so
many parts largely because of growing hostility between Muslims (mostly
Bosnians) and Christians (Serbs and Croatians)"[3]. The religious difference
"often plays a more important role than language", writes anthropologist
Christophe Jaffrelot. He continues:

    “... language-based multiculturalism is easier to maintain than
    religious-based multiculturalism, as illustrated by the integration of
    Quebec into Canada and of the Dravidian states into the Indian Union. This
    is probably due to the fact that federalism can help to diffuse tensions
    more effectively between linguistic groups than between religious
    communities. But it is also due to the emotional power of religion.
    Devotees are more ready to mobilize in defense of their religion because of
    its sacred, hence imperative, character.”

    "Religion and Nationalism" by Christophe Jaffrelot (2011)[4]

This page will not, however, concentrate on large-scale cultural-religious
conflicts and instead concentrate on the activities of criminal and violent
religious folk acting in a more individual role.

1.2. The Role of Strange Beliefs

The promotion of strange beliefs and associated mindsets is a danger of
religious thought in general. For example, when Eden Strang attacked
worshippers at a Church in South London, UK, in 1999, he was later found by the
courts to be insane. He attacked the congregation because he thought they were
demons in human form[5]. But if he didn't believe in demons, then, there is a
chance his actions would have been different. He told psychiatrists that God
had ordered him to do it[6]. Whilst it is true that most God-believers don't
start murdering people; it is also true that they are one step closer to
killing in the name of god than atheists who don't believe in gods.

“Words like "God" and "Allah" must go the way of "Apollo" and "Baal," or they
will unmake our world.”

"The End of Faith: Religion, Terror and the Future of Reason" by Sam Harris
(2006)[7]

Book CoverBook Cover

Sam Harris (2006) argues at length that in today's world, even seemingly
innocent beliefs in things like a Paradise-after-death can lead to murder and a
lost sense of the value of life in this world. Dawkins makes a similar warning
about the irrationality of religion and its effect on morals and actions, in
The God Delusion, concentrating on issues such as violence against
abortion-clinics and various other activists with bizarre beliefs[8]. In "
Fundamentalism" by Malise Ruthven (2007) the author warns that by giving things
like murder, strife and war a place in God's ultimate (and perfect) plan,
almost any action can be seen as endorsed by God - "the horrors and chaos of
wars, as described in the Mahabharata and the Book of Joshua, as debated in the
Baghavad Gita, as predicted in the Book of Revelation, and as alluded to in the
Koran, are subsumed within an order seen to be meaningful and ultimately
benign"[9]. When such beliefs are institutionalized or given free reign, it can
spell disaster for those who disagree with them. Anti-Semitism for the last
2000 years has been fuelled from Christian theology, and many instances of
violence against homosexuals stems from the intolerant religious teachings of
the Abrahamic religions. If people understood religious myths to be unreal, and
if they had a more rational and skeptical outlook, it would be much less common
for such religious prejudices to translate into violent actions.

[Aggression_Defend_Beliefs]Take Mohammed Merah, a French national originally
from Algeria, whose story was told by The Economist (2012)[10]. His beliefs led
him to the wild conclusion that in order to be rewarded by God and thusly to
live forever in paradise, he had to conduct a series of terror attacks in
France. He did so, killing four adults and three children. He did it because in
France, no-one is allowed to wear complete face and body coverings in public.
But his victims included members of an Israeli family who were not even French
and therefore were completely unrelated to the ban on complete body coverings -
Mohammed Merah's excuse was that he also opposed Israel because it was also an
enemy of Islam. When they raided his house on 2014 Mar 22, he shot and killed
three paratroopers, before being himself killed. Try to imagine, exactly, how
it is that this immoral monster can think that God endorses his actions?
Because he has very strange beliefs, but not only that, but that he believes he
must act on those beliefs no matter what. Only religion can instil such a
dramatic sense of ultimate urgency and divine necessity upon murderers.

It is not just the worldwide monotheistic religions that provide motivation for
irrational violence, sectarianism and murder. Superstitious beliefs in general
can often provide people with the ultimate excuse for acting against those who
they simply don't like. Take the example of witchcraft, widely believed in
across the world except in the largely secular countries of the developed
world. Here's a case from Assam, in north-east India.

    “In early 2007 Mrs [Ranjita] Basumatary was driven from her original
    village after her neighbours accused her of being a dain - a witch. Around
    100 villagers surrounded her home and beat her with sticks, leaving her
    badly bloodied and bruised. After receiving death threats, she fled with
    her husband and three children. [...] Local jealousy seems to have prompted
    the accusations of witchcraft. Her family had prospered, leasing livestock
    to other villagers. It led to resentment. When children in the village fell
    sick, the ojha accused Mrs Basumatary of casting spells - his own charms
    and potions having failed. Her case is not an isolated one. At least 17
    people were killed in witch-hunts in the area last year.”

    The Economist (2012)[11]

If only the locals understood the various neurological, physical and subtle
causes of superstitious beliefs that mislead us humans into such superstitions.
I lay out these causes in Errors in Thinking: Cognitive Errors, Wishful
Thinking and Sacred Truths and The False and Conflicting Experiences of
Mankind: How Other Peoples' Experience Contradict Our Own Beliefs. If only the
locals understood the benefits of opening all beliefs to critical analysis.
Their absurd behaviour can be fixed, if only they learn to question their own
beliefs and therefore adopt a more rational outlook. But they can't, because
religious taboos and the authority of the local spiritual leaders prevent it,
just as similar people have done across the world, substituting dogmas for
sensible inquiry into the world, and ousting those who dare to think
differently.

It seems that in total the general religious mindset permits a kind of
irrationalism that can easily lead to violence - although most people
(religious or not) are not violent. Harris makes the undeniable argument that
in a world where weapons such as nuclear arms and biological weapons are
becoming easier to access, we must make up for it by promoting clear-thinking,
and if that means discouraging religion, it is probably for the best.

Also read:

  • Why Question Beliefs? Dangers of Placing Ideas Beyond Doubt, and Advantages
    of Freethought
  • Errors in Thinking: Cognitive Errors, Wishful Thinking and Sacred Truths
  • The False and Conflicting Experiences of Mankind: How Other Peoples'
    Experience Contradict Our Own Beliefs

1.3. Africa: A Modern Christian/Muslim Front

During the Crusades, Christian and Muslim armies sallied back and forth across
Europe and the Middle East. Christianity had plunged the West into the Dark
Ages, and Islam was carrying only a dim light of Human progress. It is arguable
that such a conflict was as much cultural and political as religious. But
religious differences helped define Arabs and Christians as enemies. Today,
such a bleak picture is mirrored in religious battles across the continent of
Africa. It is a continent where democracies fail as frequently as they rise and
where scientific enterprise is retreating from powerful (and armed) religious
bodies. Take Nigeria and the summary presented by The Economist:

    “Nigeria, evenly distributed between Christians and Muslims, is a country
    where people identify themselves by their religion first and as Nigerians
    second. Around 20,000 have been killed in God's name since 1990. [...] This
    is one of many religious battlefields in this part of Africa. Evangelical
    Christians, backed by American collection-plate money, are surging
    northwards, clashing with Islamic fundamentalists, backed by Saudi
    petrodollars, surging southwards.”

    The Economist (2007)[12]

Once fired up with a particular set of religious beliefs - especially ones that
teach that non-believers need to be converted for their own good - it is easy
to see how this adds fuel to the fire in an already violent continent.

1.4. The Divine Endorsements of Violence

Humanity without religion is like a serial killer without a chainsaw.

Social research has found that the greater the perceived authority is, the more
its opinions are taken seriously[13]. A soldier will fight for democracy
because he is trained to respond to the authority of his seniors and he may
understand the values of freedom. A gang leader or a religious leader can both
inspire the same aggressive behaviour in their flocks. Sociologists have spent
much time researching aggression but there is not much data that specifically
focuses on the effects of religious texts on violent behaviour. The National
Secular Society reports on one of those few studies:

    “SCRIPTURAL VIOLENCE CAN FOSTER AGGRESSION, ESPECIALLY IN BELIEVERS. [...]
    A study published in this month's Psychological Science looks at the
    relation between aggression and recent exposure to accounts of biblical
    violence. Students were asked to read a story about the torture and murder
    of a man's concubine and his tribe's measured response: they assembled an
    army and razed several cities, killing every man, woman, child and animal
    they could find.

    Half the students were told that this was based on an ancient scroll
    recently discovered by archaeologists. The other half were told that it was
    from the Book of Judges in the Old Testament (which it is). In addition to
    the scriptural distinction, half of the students from both the Bible and
    the ancient scroll groups read an adjusted version that included a sentence
    in which God commanded his followers to take up arms against the others
    "and chasten them before the LORD." [...]

    Higher levels of aggression were measured in [...] in those who were told
    that the passage was from the Bible and in those who had read that the
    violence was sanctioned by God. Unsurprisingly, this effect was greater in
    believers than in atheists.”

    National Secular Society, Newsline (2007)[14]

If you combine the divine sanctioning of violence found in holy books such as
the Christian Bible and the Holy Quran, with the desire for an afterlife
attained through worldly actions, the recipe for violence is a potent one.
Failed Islamic suicide bombers have, for example, explained that they want to
attain Paradise for themselves (and friends of their choosing) by violently
martyring themselves in the fight against non-believers[15]. The motivation was
great because they truly believe the value of such actions are spelled out in
God-given written texts.

1.5. Monotheism and Violent Intolerance

There is a particular inclination towards organized violence in the histories
of monotheistic religions (those with just one god). Monotheism is embodied by
three world religions, Judaism, Christianity and Islam.

    “The God of the Abrahamic religions, so far as it is concerned in The Bible
    , The Koran, and in history, hates opposing Gods. The Israelites are
    described as being commanded by God, time and time again, to wage war
    against and kill nonbelieving pagans because they dare to worship icons,
    fake gods, and any number of unapproved things. Worshipping wrongly is
    prohibited in the traditional Ten Commandments, and is consistently one of
    the most punished crimes in the holy texts of Jews, Christians and Muslims.
    The emphasis on correctness of individual belief and individual salvation
    has led monotheism down an intolerant and often violent path in history.
    The development that "insiders are correct" and "outsiders are wrong" is
    not a feature of simple tribal religions[16], but this idea of correctness
    developed alongside literacy, especially in monotheistic religions, finding
    particular prominence in Christianity of the first century[17]. It made the
    new monotheism sectarian, schismatic and aggressive; social and moral laws
    were deemed inferior to the new emphasis on textual fundamentalism. It
    heralded a new type of religion, fundamentally hostile to all other
    religions.[18]”

    "The Causes of Fundamentalism, Intolerance and Extremism in World
    Religions, and Some Solutions" by Vexen Crabtree (2012)

2. High Rates of Imprisonment

2.1. Incarceration, Poverty, Intelligence and Religion

Imprisonment is linked to both poverty and lower intelligence. These are also
linked to religiosity; and in the case of intelligence, low intelligence is a
known cause of adherence to a religion. As crime is also linked to inner city
populations, and this is also, again, where religion is found to be strongest,
it seems that the religious have always been bound to find themselves
over-represented amongst prison populations, such as Muslims[19] and Catholics[
20].

    “According to statistics from the Federal Bureau of Prisons, Christians
    make up almost 80 percent of the prison population. Atheists make up about
    0.2 percent. [...] It is safe to conclude that the godless do not fill
    prisons. Published studies do indicate that a child's risk of sexual abuse
    by a family member increases as the family's religious denomination becomes
    more conservative, that is, when the teachings of scriptures and other
    doctrines are taken more literally. Similarly, the probability of wife
    abuse increases with the rigidity of a church's teachings pertaining to
    gender roles and hierarchy. [...] Even observers from the Christian side
    have expressed dismay that the current dominance of evangelical
    Christianity in America has not translated into a strengthening of the
    nation's moral character or the characters of evangelical Christians
    themselves. In an article in Christianity Today, theologian Ronald Sider
    lamented [...]:

        "The findings in numerous national polls conducted by highly respected
        pollsters like The Gallup Organization and The Barna Group are simply
        shocking. 'Gallup and Barna,' laments evangelical theologian Michael
        Horton, 'hand us survey after survey demonstrating that evangelical
        Christians are as likely to embrace lifestyles every bit as hedonistic,
        materialistic, self-centered, and sexually immoral as the world in
        general.' "

    ”

    "God, the Failed Hypothesis: How Science Shows That God Does Not Exist" by
    Prof. Victor J. Stenger (2007)[21]

While it is not true to say that this is proof that strict religion causes
criminality, it is at last proof that a population's adherence to a religion
does not reduce levels of socially unacceptable behaviour.

2.2. Why Are There So Many Catholics in Prison?

The liberal thinker Barbara Smoker remarked on in a (UK) Government discussion
group that Catholics have a greater chance of being found in prison than many
other social groups:

    “I mentioned that the proportion of Roman Catholics in penal institutions
    is at least twice their representation in the population at large. Though I
    was under the impression that this was a well-known fact, it caused some
    derisive laughter. But on checking the statistics, I find that again I
    erred on the side of caution: RCs comprise 12 to 13 percent of the
    population of England and Wales, but 25 to 35 per cent of the inmates of
    borstals, detention centres, prisons and hostels for drug addicts,
    alcoholics, and the like [...] and similar ratios pertain in all Western
    countries.

    A book entitled "The Church Now" (published in October 1980 by Gill and
    Macmillan) contains a chapter by a Catholic priest, Fr Terence Tanner,
    enquiring why this should be so. He points out that the answer generally
    given in the past - that RCs are unduly represented among the poorer
    sections of the community - is no longer valid.”

    "Freethoughts" by Barbara Smoker (2002)[20]

Now that poverty no longer excuses Catholic crime, another common answer is
that many people convert to a religion during a stint in prison because it is
generally thought (by both inmates and those in the world at large) that this
increases the chance of an early release. Statistics have indeed shown that
there is a strangely high rate of conversion amongst prisoners, and
sociologists have also found that it does not generally coincide with genuine
belief. But it is beside the point, because of the simple fact that Catholics
are over-represented in many walks of life that do not include imprisonment:

    “The Times of 3 October, 1980, carried a front page comment by its
    religious affairs correspondent, Clifford Longley (himself RC) under the
    heading 'The Dilemma over Roman Catholic Delinquents', the first sentence
    of which reads: 'Roman Catholics are vastly over-represented among drug
    addicts, alcoholics, compulsive gamblers, prostitutes, night-club strippers
    and convicted prisoners, for reasons no one seems to know.'

    Catholic children are largely segregated in their own denominational
    schools. In any case, Cardinal Hume's contention that church schools are
    morally beneficial is hardly borne out by the facts.”

    "Freethoughts" by Barbara Smoker (2002)[20]

If we accepted that conversion-in-prison explained why there were more
Catholics in prison, it wouldn't account for why there were so many Catholics
amongst the other categories mentioned by Smoker; drug addicts, alcoholics,
compulsive gamblers, prostitutes and night club strippers. The final point she
makes is that this prevalence undermines the Catholic idea that Catholic
schools tend to produce a better class of moral person.

We are about to see below that one reason for the higher rates of sex crimes
may be explained by Christian ideology; their teachings on human sexuality do
not mesh with reality and the mental dissonance that results can cause
distorted behaviour.

2.3. Discords Between Religious Belief and Law

A more prosaic possible cause of the higher rates of criminal and anti-social
activity amongst the religious is an inherent bias within legal systems against
such people. Whenever such biases are revealed in court, they will normally
fall foul of anti-discrimination laws, but, what if a general and obscure bias
permeates the entire legal system? As some Western countries have a strong
tradition of historical Christianity, is it possible that such legal systems
contain an inherent bias against non-Christian religions? Examples include the
Sunday trading laws that have become accepted standards in the West and the
definition of marriage which generally conforms to Abrahamic ideals (Judaic,
Christian and Muslim) at the exclusion of other ideals.

More enlightening are the historical biases and battles between different
Christian denominations themselves. The biggest conflicts were between the
Protestant and Catholics; whenever one took power in England, the other became
heavily suppressed under law. These intolerant law-making policies of major
denominations may have contributed to a general bias in law that makes it
likely that some religious adherents are likely to find particular laws
difficult. Although specifics of such anachronisms are hard to find in the
secular West (as the now-dominant secularist law-making attempts to treat all
religions fairly), it does demonstrate the point that religion-specific
legislation should be kept out of law as much as possible, but also that it is
worth considering making changes to accommodate religious adherents if there is
no strong rational argument against it.

3. Sex Crimes

That prostitutes and night-club dancers and other sex trades, and crimes, have
a higher incidence of Catholics is an anomaly in the minds of most laypeople.
Such behaviours revealed their darkest sides in the 1990s and 2000s when many
child abuse scandals centered around the Christian priesthood gain much media
coverage.

    “The high child abuse and sexual abuse rates within the Christian
    priesthood highlight a problem that many religions face: We should not
    attempt to mould human sexuality around otherworldly religious ideals.
    Sexual dysfunction always results. Psychologists and sociologists have
    noted the association between extreme religious fervour and psycho-sexual
    problems (the former causing the latter), and the highly negative stance
    that many monotheistic religions take towards sexuality in general have
    contributed to a general malaise amongst their lay adherents, and a serious
    pandemic of abuse amongst professional religionists. The religious attitude
    towards religion is to behave like an ostrich and stick its head in the
    sand, hoping that theology can override biological truth, but merely making
    its victims unable to cope with adult sexuality. Witness the hateful and
    confusing statements that Christians and Muslims make about homosexuals,
    the anti-contraception stance that the Catholic church has in an
    over-crowded world ridden with disease, the harmful and simplistic
    rejection of abortion and the patriarchal dominance over women that has
    gone hand-in-hand with traditional religion on every continent.

    In the modern world, many modern popular movements provide an alternative
    to traditional religions, and have enshrined normal sexuality. The secular
    world merely lets sexuality remain natural, and the New Age movement
    amongst many others, actively engage sexuality. The results have been much
    more positive and healthy than those of the classical monotheistic
    religions. This is one reason why countries that have liberal laws on
    abortion also have much lower rates of abortion than highly religious
    countries that restrict abortion heavily. An atmosphere of taboo and
    restriction serves limits responsible sexual behaviour. Rather than an
    ostrich, be a peacock!”

    "The Peacock vs. the Ostrich - Religious Behaviour and Sexuality: 6.
    Conclusions: Be a Peacock (Secular Society and New Religious Movements" by
    Vexen Crabtree (2008)

4. Mass Murder and Suicide Cults

4.1. Mass Delusion: 276 Child Murders and Over 600 Adult Suicides: Jim Jones'
Peoples Temple

In 1978 over 900 people died when the People's Temple (frequently known as
Jonestown) murdered their (276)[22] own children with poison. The rest of the
community then followed suit, 200 of them killing themselves and shooting the
others. The dead included 383 Americans[23]. They had previously practised the
suicide routine. Their leader shot himself. He was American Rev. James (Jim)
Warren Jones, an ordained priest in the mainstream Christian Church (Disciples
of Christ). He had previously left the Methodist Church because they did not
allow African-Americans to be members. Jones preached "an apocalyptic end of
the world through race war, genocide and nuclear war. He maintained that he was
the manifestation of the Christ principle and that he had the power to heal"[24
]. The sectarianism and religious extremism of the Christian community brought
about its own isolation. Its religious ideals were not compatible with the
demands of the practicalities of real life, and the group was fixated by a
Bible-based fear of the end of civilisation. Conflicts led Jones to move the
community to a remote part of Guyana in 1977, but a Congressman soon followed
with two investigators, worried by the concerns of relatives of members of the
cult, and the stories of defectors. The community murdered them in 1978, and
the same night put their suicide plan into action.

“Jonestown might be better understood as a utopian and millenarian society
where suicide and murder were the final strategy when the idealistic goals of
the movement failed. The conflicts Jones had with the outside world and the
isolation of the experimental commune are key factors [... of]
self-destruction.”

"Encyclopedia of New Religions" (2004)[24]

The truth is a little more complex than saying that religious extremism, led by
extremist leaders, leads to such delusion that human life is made second to
otherworldly idealism. For in this case, Jim Jones is said to be not only
rather unchristian, but a communist atheist (according to some). Whether this
is true or not, it is the religious mindset of the community - the
susceptibility of his followers to believe him - that led them astray. He put
on fake shows of his healing powers, complete with bloody props (rabbit flesh)
that he proclaimed to be cancers, and claims to be an embodiment of a principal
of Christ. He attracted the poor, the uneducated, Christians and spiritualists.
If only people would think more skeptically, and not take claims of
resurrection and magical healing seriously, few would have believed such odd
claims about reality.

The Ontario Consultants for Religious Tolerance look at sociological, radical
and anti-cult studies of the causes of the Jonestown disaster, and offer the
following four points as being the main contributing factors:

  • Jim Jones' mental illness, aggravated by his use of drugs.
  • The group's intense fear of the imminent end of civilization.
  • The extreme isolation of the Agricultural Project.
  • Opposition and pressure from anti-cult groups, the media and U.S.
    government.

Ontario Consultants for Religious Tolerance (2007)[22]

4.2. Apocalyptic Survivalism: The Branch Davidian's Shoot-Out and the Sarin Gas
Attack

We saw the Jim Jones' Peoples Temple movement progress gradually from
mainstream Christianity, through to a fully-fledged survivalist cult. An
emphasis on the end times (when in Christian belief, apocalyptic wars and death
scourge most of humanity) emerged slowly. Such ideas are present in most
mainstream religions so it is hard to tell believers that it is a dangerous
belief. Isolationism, extremism, idealism and an intolerance of people without
the same beliefs: these are all commonplace across religious communities. Once
you believe in some of those principles, it is hard to draw a firm line and
stop a community progressing down a slippery slope to a place where they
consider their ideals to be more important than human life. Such a slope met
the Peoples Temple in the Jonestown disaster where over 900 of them lost their
lives in 1978. Another American group, the Branch Davidians, also took on an
increasingly them-and-us attitude. They started out with Biblical ideas about
the cataclysms of judgement day, and ended up stockpiling weapons. It
culminated with the Waco siege where over 80 of the religionists died during a
shoot-out with authorities[25] in 1993.

Irrationality and susceptibility to believe some unlikely things about the
universe can lead to ideals and sectarianism that separate 'others' from their
humanity, and allow despicable acts to be undertaken. Aum Shinrikyo was the
religious movement responsible for the 1995 sarin gas attack on Tokyo's subway
that killed a dozen people and injured thousands. The movement had also already
murdered others in order to protect itself. The leader believed in karma, and
preached that murder was justified because it stopped people accumulating bad
karma[26]. He had picked up Christian ideas, and preached that such actions
were an act of mercy, and started preaching about Armageddon. "Political
failure and a feeling of national rejection led to increasing millenarianism"[
26]; again, the idea of a cataclysmic end of the world fuels seemingly insane
bloodshed. The victims are not only the suggestible adherents of the movement,
but the relatives, friends and communities that are affected by the religion's
otherworldly aims.

4.3. Rejection of the World and Mass Suicides: Order of the Solar Temple and
Heaven's Gate

Mass suicide frequently punctuates the progression of self-isolating religious
communities. They are nearly always associated with belief in another world
that they can travel to after death - be it heaven or a paradise on Earth. They
often do not see themselves as belonging to this world, and consider the whole
world evil, and often think that there is about to be a great war, worldwide
cataclysm, or, judgement day. These beliefs were strongly apparent in
Jonestown, where Jim Jones led the Peoples Temple to murder their own children
before mostly committing suicide themselves. They believed in an imminent
apocalypse and Jim Jones had previously predicted when it would happen (it
didn't). The Branch Davidians had similar, urgent beliefs, which is why they
stockpiled weapons. The sources of strong life-denying beliefs have varied
sources: one French New Age group, the Solar Temple, was steeped in new age
beliefs and practices, complete with Rosicrucian, Knights Templar and other
esoteric interests. 74 of them died, mostly by suicide in Switzerland and
France, then Quebec, in 1994, 1995 and 1997[27]. They believed that the Second
Coming of Jesus was imminent, and that they had to prepare for this. As with
all such groups, they had issues with the real world, and in their farewell
letters, they spoke of the "hypocrisies and oppression of this world"[28].

Heaven's Gate committed their final act of self-destruction when all 39 members
killed themselves in San Diego, USA, in 1997. The leaders, Herff Applewhite and
Bonnie Lu Nettles, believed that "they were the two witnesses mentioned in
Revelation 11"[29], and combined weird New Age beliefs with UFO theories and
were committed to detaching themselves from this world through physical
training and suppressing all emotions. Over time, they became more and more
isolated, and in keeping with other religious groups discussed on this page,
also embraced the idea of a final departure from this world and they sold all
of their possessions. In the case of Heaven's Gate, when the Hale-Bopp comet
approached, they decided it hid a spacecraft that they could enter by
committing suicide. They would be reborn, according to New Testament lore, into
physically perfect bodies[29]. Clearly the group had little grasp of cosmology
or physics and their spiritualist beliefs about travelling souls and an
idealistic life overrode their common sense. The Skeptical Inquirer describes
it in this entertaining manner:

    “[They] committed mass suicide [so] their souls could travel to Heaven,
    Nirvana, or somewhere else, flying to this indefinable infinity in the
    company of hypothetical aliens in their physics-proof starship.”

    Skeptical Inquirer (2013)[30]

Superstitions and an obsession with spiritual ideas of purity, 'karma' and
other strange beliefs are at the core of the ability for a leader to convince
people that mass suicide is a way forward. It is hard to stop such beliefs from
forming. The ability of devout parents to indoctrinate children into the belief
system is a main reason why the children are later victims of the group, either
through constant miseducation or actual murder (the Peoples' Temple and nearly
all other religious suicide groups have first poisoned their own children). It
may help to prevent children being removed from public educations systems to be
taught at home by extremists, but the methods of measuring who an extremist is,
or, of measuring which religious groups are destructive, has proven to be
generally impossible.

4.4. The Role of Reactionary Mass Media in Isolating Idealistic Groups

"The Worst of the Modern Mass Media" by Vexen Crabtree (2009)


    “The characterization of being called a doomsday cult may actually affect
    the outcome of violent events related to the group. [...] Canada's Canadian
    Security Intelligence Service Report on Doomsday Religious Cults [...
    advises] members of the law enforcement community, noting: "authorities
    often fail to appreciate the leverage they have over doomsday movements,
    which depend upon them to fulfill their apocalyptic scenarios." In the
    conclusion of the Canadian Report, the potential effects of actions by
    authorities are described:

        Sanctions applied by authorities are often interpreted by a movement as
        hostile to its existence, which reinforces their apocalyptic beliefs
        and leads to further withdrawal, mobilization and deviant actions, and
        which in turn elicits heavier sanctions by authorities. This unleashes
        a spiral of amplification, as each action amplifies each action, and
        the use of violence is facilitated as the group believes this will
        ultimately actualize its doomsday scenario."

    Eileen Barker has compared these concepts to the notion of a deviancy
    amplification spiral in the media and its effects on new religious
    movements, and James Richardson has also discussed this effect. In the case
    of the Concerned Christians, use of the term "doomsday cult" as a
    characterization of the group served as a justification for deportation of
    its members by the Israeli government. In the book The Copycat Effect: How
    the Media and Popular Culture Trigger the Mayhem in Tomorrow's Headlines,
    author Loren L. Coleman discusses the affect the media can have on the
    seemingly innocuous intentions of a French doomsday cult. [...] In
    Apocalypse Observed, authors Hall, Schuyler and Trinh discuss the affect
    the media had on the events surrounding the Order of the Solar Temple
    group. They note that news commentators "could not [help? - Vexen] making a
    comparison to events in Waco, where the government siege of the Branch
    Davidians had just begun."”

    Wikipedia article "Doomsday Cult"[31]

5. Scriptural Justifications for Murder

People tend to find and learn scriptures from their religions that reinforce
what they already believe about morality and ethics. But on top of that, the
justifications offered by religions can sometimes be given enough loyalty and
prominence in society that a religion's formal texts can support, and then
cause, violence and murder. Such scripts obviously exist in warfaring religions
such as Christianity and Islam, but also exist in Buddhism and Hinduism.
Stories and arguments from all these religions are used to justify killing in
circumstances that secular moralists find worrying.

5.1. Hinduism

    Book Cover“At the beginning of the Bhagavad Gita, Arjuna is contemplating
    the forthcoming battle between the Pandavas and their cousins the Kauravas.
    Filled with sadness, he refuses to fight and tells his charioteer, Krishna,
    of his reason. Krishna replies:

        "Great warrior, carry on they fight. If any man thinks he slays, and if
        another thinks he is slain, neither knows the ways of truth. The
        Eternal in man cannot kill: the Eternal in man cannot die. He is never
        born, and he never dies. He is in Eternity: he is for evermore... When
        a man knows him as never-born, everlasting, never-changing, beyond all
        destruction, how can that man kill a man, or cause another to kill?...

        Think thou also of thy duty and do not waver. There is no greater good
        for a warrior [kshatriya] than to fight in a righteous war. There is a
        war that opens the doors of heaven, Arjuna! Happy the warriors whose
        fate is to fight such war. But to forgo this fight for righteousness
        [Dharma] is to forgo thy duty [Dharma] and honour: is to fall into
        transgression... And to a man who is in honour, dishonour is more than
        death... Can there be for a warrior a more shameful fate?

        In death thy glory in heaven, in victory thy glory on earth.

    Bhagavad Gita 2:18-21, 31-4, 37. Quoted in:

    "The Phenomenon Of Religion: A Thematic Approach" by Moojan Momen (1999) [
    Book Review][32]

The problem is that this gives divine assent, and ultimate sanction, to war or
killing, that a person finds "righteous". Hindus and Muslims have, for example,
been fighting throughout the lands of Pakistan and in India, for many decades
with both sides attacking communities and religious centers. This is a
'righteous' war based on nothing but differences of religious belief. Any
discontent can lead to 'righteous' killing when there are strong feelings, and
(some) Hindu texts give people an intellectualized excuse to indulge in murder.
People can't really die in Hindu mythology, therefore killing isn't really
killing. And righteous killing is better than dishonour. These are dangerous
ideas.

5.2. Buddhism

    “The main scriptural justifications for killing may be briefly summarized.
    In the Mahayana Mahaparinirvana Sutra it is told how the Buddha in one of
    his former lives killed some Brahmin heretics. This was done to protect the
    Doctrine, and to save them themselves from the consequences of continued
    attacks on it. When the Doctrine is in danger the Five Precepts, including
    the prohibition on taking life, may be ignored...”

    "The Phenomenon Of Religion: A Thematic Approach" by Moojan Momen (1999) [
    Book Review][32]

The problem is that "threats" to Doctrine can mean almost anything. Science and
modernism both threaten religion as a whole, including Buddhist Doctrine.
Hardline Buddhists have fought violently against Muslims and Hindus in Asia,
expressing fears that Buddhism is dwindling under the other religion's forceful
expansionism. The Crusades and the Inquisition were both based on protecting
Doctrine against heretics. The idea that ideas are more important than lives is
one of the most dangerous ideas in religion, especially when you combine this
with a general belief in eternal consequences and afterlives. It is better for
stability and peace if we consider Humans to be more valuable alive than dead,
no matter what their beliefs are.

5.3. Christianity

The Old Testament was rife with occasions when God not only sanctioned the
murder, pillage and rape of the enemies of his chosen people, but, often God
itself joined in, directly smiting people itself. Jeremiah 48:10 declares: "A
curse on him who is lax in doing the LORD's work! A curse on him who keeps his
sword from bloodshed!". It reminds me of Exodus 15:3: "The LORD is a man of
war: the LORD is his name".

It is clear that violence has a divine Biblical endorsement. But for what ends?
Luke 14:23 says "Compel people to come in!" for the purpose of "filling" the
Church. Jesus himself declared "think not that I am come to send peace on
earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword" (Matthew 10:34). And henceforth,
Christian history contains many unfortunate chapters where Christian groups
anathematized one another as heretics, and proceeded to burn, torture and
murder those who disagreed. Victims have been anyone who disagreed even on
confusing technical points of Christian doctrine, members of other religions
such as Muslims and Jews, and it seems, many other innocent victims ranging
from outcasts who were accused of witchcraft ("Thou shalt not suffer a witch to
live" - Exodus 22:18), homosexuals and finally, a small number who have
genuinely plotted against the Church.

Book CoverSuch attitudes are not merely disasters found in history. Even in the
twentieth century, Pope Leo XII argued for violence and murder, based on
religion:

    “The death sentence is a necessary and efficacious means for the Church to
    attain its end when rebels act against it and disturbers of the
    ecclesiastical unity, especially obstinate heretics and heresiarchs, cannot
    be restrained by any other penalty. [...] If there be no other remedy for
    saving its people it can and must put these wicked men to death.”

    Pope Leo XII[33]

The section above is taken from "Is the Christian God Evil? Evidence from
Scripture and Nature: 3. Genocides and Divine Incitements to Murder" by Vexen
Crabtree (2006), click for a more comprehensive look at the many genocides
committed by God, or ordered by God, in the Christian Bible.

5.4. Islam[34]

There are too many themes of violence and aggression promoted in the Qur'an to
document it all here. I'm going to quote from my page that concentrates on just
one of these themes: Islam versus Unbelievers: Convert, Subjugate or Die.

    “

    The Qur'an propounds a harsh and violence doctrine, promoting the idea of
    an constant struggle between Muslims and others that can only be ended when
    everyone has converted to Islam, normally by going through a phase of
    paying a tax to Muslims after submitting to them, or, if all else fails,
    through being defeated through war or trickery. Now it might seem
    contradictory to also point out that there a great number of verses in the
    Qur'an that preach against Muslims trying to convert others to Islam, but
    the contradiction isn't that great because, whether or not you actively try
    to convert them, non-believers can still be fought against and subjugated,
    and the conversion can just be assumed to start happening "naturally"
    during that process. The Qur'an does not take a rational or tolerant stance
    - its very definition of "non-believer" and "disbeliever" is skewed against
    any chance of amicability, for example in Qur'an 38:74 Satan is called an
    "unbeliever" yet is standing there talking to God. This is an incorrect use
    of the word "unbeliever". Satan clearly believes that God exists, hence, is
    a believer. "Unbeliever" simply means "anyone who doesn't toe the line" -
    and with such a wide definition of the enemy, there is little scope for
    peace or human rights within Islamic communities, let alone between Muslims
    and others. There is little to give hope to liberal proponents of peace and
    tolerance in the hundreds of verses discussed on this page.”

    "Islam versus Unbelievers: Convert, Subjugate or Die" by Vexen Crabtree
    (2013)

 1. Muslims Must Face Non-Muslims With Conversion, Subjugation, or Death
 2. Stealing From the Dhimmi (Westerners)
 3. Apostasy
 4. Blasphemy and Islam
 5. Abandon Your Family and Wives, If They Disbelieve
 6. Non-Believers Will Never Be Successful, Says the Quran
 7. The Qur'an Say Muslims Cannot, and Should Not, Try to Convert Disbelievers

6. Conclusions

6.1. Religious Authority and Idealism

Monotheism has bred the most violent individuals and cultures due its
intolerance of 'other' gods and a general strictness on the specifics of belief
but, other forms of religion also breed antisocial and violent individuals. Two
factors lead believers into uncivil behaviour. (1) The irrationality of belief
and (2) the legitimization given to actions by beliefs in higher authorities,
without the teaching of any critical and skeptical way of judging between
claims as to what those higher authorities would want. For some people, voices
in their heads are all that are required as long as they believe in god(s)
which have authority to speak to them. For others, including atheist skeptics,
such voices are immediate warning signs of impending mental ill health.
Thirdly, (3), an otherworldly idealism and fixation with the corruptness,
evilness or immorality of this world often pushes groups into extreme isolation
where they cease to consider outsiders to be worthwhile human beings. Both
irrational and criminal behaviour are given freer rein within religious systems
of thought, as is suicide to escape this world and move on to the 'next'. Mass
suicide, shoot-outs, gas attacks and other atrocities have befallen groups
whose main thing in common is self-isolation from wider society, and a dread of
a generally Christian-themed apocalyptic judgement-day. Many such groups
emerged from mainstream religious movements and gradually became more and more
sectarian over time. The main causes that allow this slip are insipid
supernaturalism, poor education, sectarian schooling and a lack of critical
thinking.

6.2. Intelligence

Prison incarceration is inversely linked to intelligence. Intelligence is
inversely linked to faith. Religious parenting causes a reduction in children's
average IQs. Evidence for this is that religious types (notably Catholics) are
over-represented amongst prison inmates and other nasty classes of human, such
as drug addicts, alcoholics, compulsive gamblers and sex industry workers
(including strippers); not to mention the fact that sectarian religious schools
promote the social divisions that hundreds of sociological analyses have proven
to destroy community cohesion and increase violence and crime. If religion
makes a person more likely to fall foul of societies' penal codes and moral
judgements, and so does lower intelligence, and also religion causes lack of
intelligence, then we have a self-perpetuating cycle. Two ways forward are an
increase in non-religious education and the reduction of the authority given to
religious ideas.

6.3. Prevention

To prevent the sectarianism and isolation that leads religious groups to the
most atrocious actions is a difficult task in a free society; people are free
to join groups and live with friends (call it a commune if you want), and are
also free to believe crazy things. To stop social groups, even just exclusive
ones, is a severe reduction in freedom and almost definitely not worth it on
the balance. Restricting living arrangements would disrupt ethnic groups,
religious groups and all kinds of innocent behaviour. It is impossible and
reprehensible to try and police beliefs: that type of behaviour is a symptom of
extremism, not a cause of it. Yet these three elements, when taken together,
can lead to everything from mass suicide to genocidal attacks on humanity as a
whole. The cure cannot be to deal with the errant groups as they emerge, but to
stop them emerging in the first place.

Causes of the isolation of these groups stem from their social unacceptability;
they feel rejected because others (accurately) judge their ideas as absurd.
They reject the world just as it rejects them. This leads to the them-and-us
attitude in extremo. The outcries against "cults" in the press, and official
investigations, all feed the fire, but the government cannot fail to
investigate pseudo-criminal groups, as things like child welfare are at stake.

My page on "Anti-Religious Forces: Specific Factors Fuelling Secularisation" by
Vexen Crabtree (2011) describes many of the elements of modern life that reduce
superstitious and religious beliefs in general. Without beliefs in god(s),
afterlife, etc, it is impossible to believe any of the things that the leaders
of these groups tend to say. And although most these groups do attract some
outstanding individuals and persons of responsibility, in general they are the
stay of the under-privileged and under-educated. Education is the main inverse
correlate of divisive religious sectarianism. Comparative religion and
skeptical thinking both serve to help people evaluate claims about spiritual
reality in more reasonable and moral terms. This operates across the scale from
the tutorship of individual children at home, to the mass-education of ethnic
and religious groups in specially run schools. Most parents who educate their
children at home do so for religious reasons[35]. Sectarian religious schools
(who base entry criteria on religion) are a major cause of the type of social
schism that leads to violent behaviour[36].

 1. Education should be secular, inclusive and mixed. This means emphasis on
    difference of belief, without assuming any particular belief system is
    true, and an abandonment of schools that split people along religious (or
    ethnic) lines (this applies during home education too).

 2. Cult-bashing reactionary news broadcasts that actively attack small,
    isolated communities always make the situation worse. Engagement should be
    educational and sympathetic towards followers, not judgemental and
    aggressive (which makes them isolate themselves more).

 3. The presentation of scientific reality in easy-to-understand terms on TV,
    complete with reality-based interpretations of spiritual-seeming events.
    Too much TV assumes that many otherworldly ideas about reality are true,
    and far too little employs any evidence-based skeptical thinking. A more
    responsible take on what beliefs mass media products encourage should be
    taken.

 4. Beliefs in afterlife, god(s) and spiritual ideas should ideally be tempered
    with reasonable levels of doubt and common sense. Merely saying that this
    should be so doesn't help, however, so it is up to the three points above
    to bring this recommended state closer!

Read / Write LJ Comments

By Vexen Crabtree 2009 Aug 31
(Last Modified: 2015 Jun 26)
Originally published 2008 Sep 28
http://www.humanreligions.info/violence_and_crime.html
Parent page: Religion and Morals

Do We Need Religion to Have Good Morals?
[INS::INS]

Social Media

[INS::INS]

Links

  • "Time to Move On: Religion Has Cost Too Much" by Vexen Crabtree (2010)
  • "The Causes of Fundamentalism, Intolerance and Extremism in World
    Religions, and Some Solutions" by Vexen Crabtree (2012)
  • "Religion, Violence, Crime and Mass Suicide" by Vexen Crabtree (2009)
  • "Do We Need Religion to Have Good Morals?" by Vexen Crabtree (2014)
  • "Christian Moral Theory and Morality in Action: Biblical Morals and Social
    Disaster" by Vexen Crabtree (2015)
  • "Growing Fundamentalism in Islam: How Moderates are Subjugated by Muslim
    Hardliners" by Vexen Crabtree (2013)

References: (What's this?)

Book Cover

Book Cover

Book Cover

Book Cover

Book Cover

Book Cover

Book Cover

Book Cover

Book Cover

Book Cover

Book Cover

Book Cover

Book Cover

The Koran. Translation by N. J. Dawood. Penguin Classics edition published by
Penguin Group Ltd, London, UK. First published 1956, quotes taken from 1999
edition.

The Bible (NIV). The NIV is the best translation for accuracy whilst
maintaining readability. Multiple authors, a compendium of multiple previously
published books. I prefer to take quotes from the NIV but where I quote the
Bible en masse I must quote from the KJV because it is not copyrighted, whilst
the NIV is. [Book Review]

Skeptical Inquirer. Pro-science magazine published bimonthly by the Committee
for Skeptical Inquiry, New York, USA.

The Economist. Published by The Economist Group, Ltd. A weekly newspaper in
magazine format, famed for its accuracy, wide scope and intelligent content.
See vexen.co.uk/references.html#Economist for some commentary on this source.

Boyer, Pascal
(2001) Religion Explained. Hardback. Published by William Heinemann, Random
House Group Ltd, London, UK.

Clarke, Peter B.. Peter B. Clarke: Professor Emeritus of the History and
Sociology of Religion, King's College, University of London, and currently
Professor in the Faculty of Theology, University of Oxford, UK.
(2011) The Oxford Handbook of The Sociology of Religion. Published by Oxford
University Press, Oxford, UK. First published 2009.

Crabtree, Vexen
(2008) "The Peacock vs. the Ostrich - Religious Behaviour and Sexuality"
(2008). Accessed 2015 Jun 26.
(2010) "Time to Move On: Religion Has Cost Too Much" (2010). Accessed 2015 Jun
26.
(2010) "Faith Schools, Sectarian Education and Segregation: Divisive Religious
Behavior (UK Case Study)" (2010). Accessed 2015 Jun 26.

Dawkins, Prof. Richard
(2006) The God Delusion. Hardback. Published by Bantam Press, Transworld
Publishers, Uxbridge Road, London, UK.

Ehrman, Bart
(2003) Lost Christianities. Hardback. Oxford University Press, New York, USA.

Ellerbe, Helen
(1995) The Dark Side of Christian History. Published by Morningstar & Lark,
Windermere, FL, USA.

Fenn, Richard K.
(2009) Key Thinkers in the Sociology of Religion. A look at what 11
sociologists of religion think of "the sacred". Be warned that Fenn's book
contains one chapter on each sociologist of religion but that his own mystical
and specific take on 'the sacrad' is heavily intermingled with his commentary -
see the book review for a proper description. Published by Continuum
International Publishing Group, London, UK. [Book Review]

Harris, Sam
(2006) The End of Faith: Religion, Terror and the Future of Reason. 2006
edition. Published in UK by The Great Free Press, 2005.

Jaffrelot, Christophe
(2011) Religion and Nationalism. This essay is chapter 22 of "The Oxford
Handbook of The Sociology of Religion" by Peter B. Clarke (2011) (pages
406-417).

Momen, Moojan
(1999) The Phenomenon Of Religion: A Thematic Approach. Published by Oneworld
Publications, Oxford, UK. [Book Review]

Myers, David
(1999) Social Psychology. 6th 'international' edition. First edition 1983.
Published by McGraw Hill.

NSS. The National Secular Society, London, UK.
Newsline. Weekly news letter. See: "Secularism" by Vexen Crabtree (2011).

Partridge, Christopher
(2004, Ed.) Encyclopedia of New Religions. Hardback. Published by Lion
Publishing, Oxford, UK.

Ruthven, Malise
(2007) Fundamentalism. First edition 2005. New edition now published as part of
the “Very Short Introduction” series. Published by Oxford University Press,
Oxford, UK.

Schroe:der, Robert
(2007) Cults: Secret Sects and Radical Religions. Hardback. Published by
Carlton Books.

Smoker, Barbara
(2002) Freethoughts. Published by G W Foate Ltd, London. 2002. A compilation of
articles in the Freethinker. She was President of the National Secular Society
from 1981.

Stenger, Prof. Victor J.
(2007) God, the Failed Hypothesis: How Science Shows That God Does Not Exist.
Published by Prometheus Books. Stenger is a Nobel-prize winning physicist, and
a skeptical philosopher whose research is strictly rational and evidence-based.

Footnotes

 1. The Economist (2007 Nov 03) insert 'A special report on religion and public
    life' p3^
 2. The Economist (2008 Sep 27) article on Hindu-Christian tensions in India,
    p27. Added to this page on 2012 Jan 08.^
 3. Jaffrelot (2011) p412. Added to this page on 2015 Jun 26.^
 4. Jaffrelot (2011) p413. Added to this page on 2015 Jun 26.^
 5. BBC News "Nude swordsman 'not guilty but insane'" (2000 Jun 02). Accessed
    2008 Sep 28.^
 6. BBC News "Samurai sword attacker freed" (2002 Jun 29). Accessed 2008 Sep
    28.^
 7. Harris (2006) p14.^
 8. Dawkins (2006) ch. 8 What's wrong with religion? Why be so hostile?.^
 9. Ruthven (2007) Chapter 6^
10. The Economist (2012 Mar 24) article "The Toulouse killings: Murders in the
    Midi-Pyre'ne'es". Added to this page on 2014 May 02.^
11. The Economist (2012 Apr 02) article "Witchcraft in Assam: Toil and trouble
    ". Added to this page on 2014 May 02.^
12. The Economist (2007 Nov 03) insert "A special report on religion and public
    life" p3.^
13. Myers (1999) chapter on conformity.^
14. National Secular Society, Newsline (2007 Mar 09) For a fuller account see:
    "When God sanctions killing, the people listen".^
15. Harris (2006) p31,46.^
16. Boyer (2001) ch8. Why doctrines, exclusion and violence? p303-309. Added to
    this page on 2014 Aug 02.^
17. Ehrman (2003) p91-92.^
18. Fenn (2009) chapter "Bryan Wilson" p135. Fenn says that Bryan Wilson says
    Christianity has been notably inhospitable to competing religions because
    of its monotheism. Added to this page on 2012 Nov 03.^
19. Associated Press (AP), reported by Elaine Ganley (2008 Oct 01), who states
    "a disproportionate number of Muslims can be found in prisons in [France,
    and] other European Union countries". Article on the AP website and on
    Google News. Added to this page on 2008 Oct 03.^
20. Smoker (2002) p80. The statistics referred to by Smoker were published by
    HM Stationary Office.^^
21. Stenger (2007) p194-5.^
22. Ontario Consultants for Religious Tolerance (2007). Accessed 2009 Aug 30.^
23. Schroe:der (2007) p60-61.^
24. Prof. John A Saliba in "Encyclopedia of New Religions" by Christopher
    Partridge (2004) p77-78. Saliba has been Professor of Religious Studies at
    the University of Detroit, Michigan, USA, since the 1970s.^
25. James R. Lewis in "Encyclopedia of New Religions" by Christopher Partridge
    (2004) p78-85. Lewis is an authority of non-traditional religions and a
    lecturer in the University of Wisconsin, USA.^
26. David Miller in "Encyclopedia of New Religions" by Christopher Partridge
    (2004) p261-2.^
27. Jean-Franc,ois Mayer in "Encyclopedia of New Religions" by Christopher
    Partridge (2004) p347-8. Mayer lectures at the University of Fribourg,
    Switzerland.^
28. Wikipedia entry on Order of the Solar Temple. Accessed 2009 Aug 31.^
29. James R. Lewis in "Encyclopedia of New Religions" by Christopher Partridge
    (2004) p406-7.^
30. Skeptical Inquirer (2013 Jan/Feb) article "It's the end of the world and
    they don't feel fine: The psychology of December 21, 2012" p34-39, by
    Matthew J. Sharps, Schuyler W. Liad and Megan R. Herrera. Added to this
    page on 2014 Mar 08.^
31. Wikipedia article "Doomsday Cult" last modified 2009 Jun 02. Accessed 2009
    Aug 31.^
32. Momen (1999) p410. Added to this page on 2009 Jun 28.^^
33. Lloyd M. Graham, Deceptions and Myths of the Bible (New York: Citadel
    Press, 1975) 468. In "The Dark Side of Christian History" by Helen Ellerbe
    (1995) p38. Added to this page on 2011 Oct 24.^
34. Added to this page on 2014 May 02.^
35. The Economist (2009 Aug 08) article "Kitchen-classroom conservatives"
    p36-7.^
36. "Faith Schools, Sectarian Education and Segregation: Divisive Religious
    Behavior (UK Case Study)" by Vexen Crabtree (2010).^

(C) 2015 Vexen Crabtree. All rights reserved.

[FB_Sha]
