bg image(aaa_1_use_this_background.jpg)

  ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │                   The Witch Hunts:                     │
  │             The End of Magic and Miracles              │
  └────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

           From: The Dark Side of Christian History           ┌───────────┐
                      by Helen Ellerbe                        │   cover   │
               Chapter Eight: 1450 - 1750 C.E.                └───────────┘

  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

    The Reformation did not convert the people of Europe to orthodox
    Christianity through preaching and catechisms alone. It was the 300 year
    period of witch-hunting from the fifteenth to the eighteenth century, what
    R.H. Robbins called "the shocking nightmare, the foulest crime and deepest
    shame of western civilization." The Church created the elaborate concept of
    devil worship and then, used the persecution of it to wipe out dissent,
    subordinate the individual to authoritarian control, and openly denigrate
    women.

    The witch hunts were an eruption of orthodox Christianity's vilification of
    women, "the weaker vessel," in St. Peter's words. The second century St.
    Clement of Alexandria wrote: "Every woman should be filled with shame by
    the thought that she is a woman." The Church father Tertullian explained
    why women deserve their status as despised and inferior human beings:

        "And do you not know that you are an Eve? The sentence of God on this
        sex of yours lives in this age: the guilt must of necessity live too.
        You are the devil's gateway: you are the unsealer of that tree: you are
        the first deserter of the divine law: you are she who persuaded him
        whom the devil was not valiant enough to attack. You destroyed so
        easily God's image, man. On account of your desert that is, death even
        the Son of God had to die."

    Others expressed the view more bluntly. The sixth century Christian
    philosopher, Boethius, wrote in The Consolation of Philosophy, "Woman is a
    temple built upon a sewer." Bishops at the sixth century Council of Macon
    voted as to whether or not women had souls. In the tenth century Odo of
    Cluny declared, "To embrace a woman is to embrace a sack of manure..." The
    thirteenth century St. Thomas Aquinas suggested that God had made a mistake
    in creating woman: "nothing [deficient] or defective should have been
    produced in the first establishment of things; so woman ought not to have
    been produced then." And Lutherans at Wittenberg debated whether women were
    really human beings at all. Orthodox Christians held women responsible for
    all sin. As the Bible's Apocrypha states, "Of woman came the beginning of
    sin/ And thanks to her, we all must die."

    Women are often understood to be impediments to spirituality in a context
    where God reigns strictly from heaven and demands a renunciation of
    physical pleasure. As I Corinthians 7:1 states, "It is a good thing for a
    man to have nothing to do with a woman." The Inquisitors who wrote the
    Malleus Maleficarum, "The Hammer of the Witches," explained that women are
    more likely to become witches than men:

        'Because the female sex is more concerned with things of the flesh than
        men;' because being formed from a man's rib, they are only 'imperfect
        animals' and 'crooked' whereas man belongs to a privileged sex from
        whose midst Christ emerged.

    King James I estimated that the ratio of women to men who succumbed to
    witchcraft was twenty to one. Of those formally persecuted for witchcraft,
    between 80 to 90 percent were women.

    Christians found fault with women on all sorts of counts. An historian
    notes that thirteenth century preachers

        ...denounced women on the one hand for... the lascivious and carnal
        provocation of their garments, and on the other hand for being over-
        industrious, too occupied with children and housekeeping, too
        earthbound to give due thought to divine things.

    According to a Dominican of the same period, woman is "the confusion of
    man, an insatiable beast, a continuous anxiety, an incessant warfare, a
    daily ruin, a house of tempest ...a hindrance to devotion."

    As reformational fervor spread, the feminine aspect of Christianity in the
    worship of Mary became suspect. Throughout the Middle Ages, Mary's powers
    were believed to effectively curtail those of the devil. But Protestants
    entirely dismissed reverence for Mary while reformed Catholics diminished
    her importance. Devotion to Mary often became indicative of evil. In the
    Canary islands, Aldonca de Vargas was reported to the Inquisition after she
    smiled at hearing mention of the Virgin Mary. Inquisitors distorted an
    image of the Virgin Mary into a device of torture, covering the front side
    of a statue of Mary with sharp knives and nails. Levers would move the arms
    of the statue crushing the victim against the knives and nails.

    The witch hunts also demonstrated great fear of female sexuality. The book
    that served as the manual for understanding and persecuting witchcraft, the
    Malleus Maleficarum, describes how witches were known to "collect male
    organs in great numbers, as many as twenty or thirty members together, and
    put them in a bird's nest..." The manual recounts a story of a man who,
    having lost his penis, went to a witch to have it restored:

        She told the afflicted man to climb a certain tree, and that he might
        take which he liked out of a nest in which there were several members.
        And when he tried to take a big one, the witch said: You must not take
        that one; adding, because it belonged to a parish priest.

    A man in 1621 lamented, "of women's unnatural, unsatiable lust... what
    country, what village doth not complain."

    While most of what became known as witchcraft was invented by Christians,
    certain elements of witchcraft did represent an older pagan tradition.
    Witchcraft was linked and even considered to be synonymous with
    "divination," which means not only the art of foretelling the future, but
    also the discovery of knowledge by the aid of supernatural power. It
    suggests that there is such power available- something orthodox Christians
    insisted could only be the power of the devil, for God was no longer to be
    involved with the physical world.

    The word "witch" comes from the old English wicce and wicca, meaning the
    male and female participants in the ancient pagan tradition which holds
    masculine, feminine and earthly aspects of God in great reverence. Rather
    than a God which stood above the world, removed from ordinary life,
    divinity in the Wiccan tradition was understood to imbue both heaven and
    earth. This tradition also recalled a period when human society functioned
    without hierarchy- either matriarchal or patriarchal- and without gender,
    racial or strict class rankings. It was a tradition that affirmed the
    potential for humanity to live without domination and fear, something
    orthodox Christians maintain is impossible.

    The early Church had tried to eradicate the vestiges of this older
    non-hierarchical tradition by denying the existence of witches or magic
    outside of the Church. The Canon Episcopi, a Church law which first
    appeared in 906, decreed that belief in witchcraft was heretical. After
    describing pagan rituals which involved women demonstrating extraordinary
    powers, it declared:

        For an innumerable multitude, deceived by this false opinion, believe
        this to be true and, so believing, wander from the right faith and are
        involved in the error of the pagans when they think that there is
        anything of divinity or power except the one God.

    Nevertheless, the belief in magic was still so prevalent in the fourteenth
    century that the Council of Chartres ordered anathema to be pronounced
    against sorcerers each Sunday in every church.

    It took the Church a long time to persuade society that women were inclined
    toward evil witchcraft and devil-worship. Reversing its policy of denying
    the existence of witches, in the thirteenth century the Church began
    depicting the witch as a slave of the devil. No longer was she or he to be
    associated with an older pagan tradition. No longer was the witch to be
    thought of as benevolent healer, teacher, wise woman, or one who accessed
    divine power. She was now to be an evil satanic agent. The Church began
    authorizing frightening portrayals of the devil in the twelfth and
    thirteenth centuries. Images of a witch riding a broom first appeared in
    1280. Thirteenth century art also depicted the devil's pact in which demons
    would steal children and in which parents themselves would deliver their
    children to the devil. The Church now portrayed witches with the same
    images so frequently used to characterize heretics: "...a small clandestine
    society engaged in anti-human practices, including infanticide, incest,
    cannibalism, bestiality and orgiastic sex..."

    The Church developed the concept of devil-worship as an astoundingly
    simplistic reversal of Christian rites and practices. Whereas God imposed
    divine law, the devil demanded adherence to a pact. Where Christians showed
    reverence to God by kneeling, witches paid homage to the devil by standing
    on their heads. The sacraments in the Catholic Church became excrements in
    the devil's church. Communion was parodied by the Black Mass. Christian
    prayers could be used to work evil by being recited backwards. The
    eucharist bread or host was imitated in the devil's service by a turnip.
    The baptismal "character" or stigmata of the mysteries was parodied by the
    devil's mark impressed upon the witch's body by the claw of the devil's
    left hand. Whereas saints had the gift of tears, witches were said to be
    incapable of shedding tears. Devil worship was a simple parody of
    Christianity. Indeed, the very concept of the devil was exclusive to
    monotheism and had no importance within the pagan, Wiccan tradition.

    The Church also projected its own hierarchical framework onto this new evil
    witchcraft. The devil's church was to be organized such that its
    dignitaries could climb the ranks to the position of bishop, just like in
    the Catholic Church. Julio Caro Baroja explains:

        ...the Devil causes churches and altars to appear with music... and
        devils decked out as saints. The dignitaries reach rank of bishop, and
        sub-deacons, deacons and priests serve Mass. Candles and incense are
        used for the service and water is sprinkled from a thurifer. There is
        an offertory, a sermon, a blessing over the equivalents of bread and
        wine... So that nothing should be missing there are even false martyrs
        in the organization.

    Again, such hierarchy was entirely a projection of the Church that bore no
    resemblance to ancient paganism. By recognizing both masculine and feminine
    faces of God and by understanding God to be infused throughout the physical
    world, the Wiccan tradition had no need for strict hierarchical rankings.

    Pope John XXII formalized the persecution of witchcraft in 1320 when he
    authorized the Inquisition to prosecute sorcery. ." Thereafter papal bulls
    and declarations grew increasingly vehement in their condemnation of
    witchcraft and of all those who "made a pact with hell." In 1484 Pope
    Innocent VIII issued the bull Summis desiderantes authorizing two
    inquisitors, Kramer and Sprenger, to systematize the persecution of
    witches. Two years later their manual, Malleus Maleficarum, was published
    with 14 editions following between 1487-1520 and at least 16 editions
    between 1574-1669. A papal bull in 1488 called upon the nations of Europe
    to rescue the Church of Christ which was "imperiled by the arts of Satan."
    The papacy and the Inquisition had successfully transformed the witch from
    a phenomenon whose existence the Church had previously rigorously denied
    into a phenomenon that was deemed very real, very frightening, the
    antithesis of Christianity, and absolutely deserving of persecution.

    It was now heresy not to believe in the existence of witches. As the
    authors of the Malleus Maleficarum noted, "A belief that there are such
    things as witches is so essential a part of Catholic faith that obstinately
    to maintain the opposite opinion savors of heresy." Passages in the Bible
    such as "Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live" were cited to justify the
    persecution of witches. Both Calvin and Knox believed that to deny
    witchcraft was to deny the authority of the Bible. The eighteenth century
    founder of Methodism, John Wesley, declared to those skeptical of
    witchcraft, "The giving up of witchcraft is in effect the giving up of the
    Bible." And an eminent English lawyer wrote, "To deny the possibility, nay,
    actual existence of Witchcraft and Sorcery, is at once flatly to contradict
    the revealed Word of God in various passages both of the Old and New
    Testament."

    The persecution of witchcraft enabled the Church to prolong the
    profitability of the Inquisition. The Inquisition had left regions so
    economically destitute that the inquisitor Eymeric complained, "In our days
    there are no more rich heretics... it is a pity that so salutary an
    institution as ours should be so uncertain of its future." By adding
    witchcraft to the crimes it persecuted, however, the Inquisition exposed a
    whole new group of people from whom to collect money. It took every
    advantage of this opportunity. The author Barbara Walker notes:

        Victims were charged for the very ropes that bound them and the wood
        that burned them. Each procedure of torture carried its fee. After the
        execution of a wealthy witch, officials usually treated themselves to a
        banquet at the expense of the victim's estate.

    In 1592 Father Cornelius Loos wrote:

        Wretched creatures are compelled by the severity of the torture to
        confess things they have never done... and so by the cruel butchery
        innocent lives are taken; and, by a new alchemy, gold and silver are
        coined from human blood.

    In many parts of Europe trials for witchcraft began exactly as the trials
    for other types of heresy stopped.

    The process of formally persecuting witches followed the harshest
    inquisitional procedure. Once accused of witchcraft, it was virtually
    impossible to escape conviction. After cross- examination, the victim's
    body was examined for the witch's mark. The historian Walter Nigg described
    the process:

        ...she was stripped naked and the executioner shaved off all her body
        hair in order to seek in the hidden places of the body the sign which
        the devil imprinted on his cohorts. Warts, freckles, and birthmarks
        were considered certain tokens of amorous relations with Satan.

    Should a woman show no sign of a witch's mark, guilt could still be
    established by methods such as sticking needles in the accused's eyes. In
    such a case, guilt was confirmed if the inquisitor could find an
    insensitive spot during the process.

    Confession was then extracted by the hideous methods of torture already
    developed during earlier phases of the Inquisition. "Loathe they are to
    confess without torture," wrote King James I in his Daemonologie. A
    physician serving in witch prisons spoke of women driven half mad:

        ...by frequent torture... kept in prolonged squalor and darkness of
        their dungeons... and constantly dragged out to undergo atrocious
        torment until they would gladly exchange at any moment this most bitter
        existence for death, are willing to confess whatever crimes are
        suggested to them rather than to be thrust back into their hideous
        dungeon amid ever recurring torture.

    Unless the witch died during torture, she was taken to the stake. Since
    many of the burnings took place in public squares, inquisitors prevented
    the victims from talking to the crowds by using wooden gags or cutting
    their tongue out. Unlike a heretic or a Jew who would usually be burnt
    alive only after they had relapsed into their heresy or Judaism, a witch
    would be burnt upon the first conviction.

    Sexual mutilation of accused witches was not uncommon. With the orthodox
    understanding that divinity had little or nothing to do with the physical
    world, sexual desire was perceived to be ungodly. When the men persecuting
    the accused witches found themselves sexually aroused, they assumed that
    such desire emanated, not from themselves, but from the woman. They
    attacked breasts and genitals with pincers, pliers and red-hot irons. Some
    rules condoned sexual abuse by allowing men deemed "zealous Catholics" to
    visit female prisoners in solitary confinement while never allowing female
    visitors. The people of Toulouse were so convinced that the inquisitor
    Foulques de Saint-George arraigned women for no other reason than to
    sexually abuse them that they took the dangerous and unusual step of
    gathering evidence against him.

    The horror of the witch hunts knew no bounds. The Church had never treated
    the children of persecuted parents with compassion, but its treatment of
    witches' children was particularly brutal. Children were liable to be
    prosecuted and tortured for witchcraft: girls, once they were nine and a
    half, and boys, once they were ten and a half. Younger children were
    tortured in order to elicit testimony that could be used against their
    parents. Even the testimony of two-year-old children was considered valid
    in cases of witchcraft though such testimony was never admissible in other
    types of trials. A famous French magistrate was known to have regretted his
    leniency when, instead of having young children accused of witchcraft
    burned, he had only sentenced them to be flogged while they watched their
    parents burn.

    Witches were held accountable for nearly every problem. Any threat to
    social uniformity, any questioning of authority, and any act of rebellion
    could now be attributed to and prosecuted as witchcraft. Not surprisingly,
    areas of political turmoil and religious strife experienced the most
    intense witch hunts. Witch-hunting tended to be much more severe in
    Germany, Switzerland, France, Poland and Scotland than in more
    homogeneously Catholic countries such as Italy and Spain. Witch-hunters
    declared that "Rebellion is as the sin of Witchcraft." In 1661 Scottish
    royalists proclaimed that "Rebellion is the mother of witchcraft." And in
    England the Puritan William Perkins called the witch "The most notorious
    traytor and rebell that can be..."

    The Reformation played a critical role in convincing people to blame
    witches for their problems. Protestants and reformed Catholics taught that
    any magic was sinful since it indicated a belief in divine assistance in
    the physical world. The only supernatural energy in the physical world was
    to be of the devil. Without magic to counter evil or misfortune, people
    were left with no form of protection other than to kill the devil's agent,
    the witch. Particularly in Protestant countries, where protective rituals
    such as crossing oneself, sprinkling holy water or calling on saints or
    guardian angels were no longer allowed, people felt defenseless. As
    Shakespeare's character, Prospero, says in The Tempest:

        Now my charms are all o'erthrown,
        And what strength I have's mine own,
        which is most faint...

    It was most often the sermons of both Catholic and Protestant preachers
    that would instigate a witch hunt. The terrible Basque witch hunt of 1610
    began after Fray Domingo de Sardo came to preach about witchcraft. "[T]here
    were neither witches nor bewitched until they were talked and written
    about," remarked a contemporary named Salazar. The witch hunts in Salem,
    Massachusetts, were similarly preceded by the fearful sermons and preaching
    of Samuel Parris in 1692.

    The climate of fear created by churchmen of the Reformation led to
    countless deaths of accused witches quite independently of inquisitional
    courts or procedure. For example, in England where there were no
    inquisitional courts and where witch-hunting offered little or no financial
    reward, many women were killed for witchcraft by mobs. Instead of following
    any judicial procedure, these mobs used methods to ascertain guilt of
    witchcraft such as "swimming a witch," where a woman would be bound and
    thrown into water to see if she floated. The water, as the medium of
    baptism, would either reject her and prove her guilty of witchcraft, or the
    woman would sink and be proven innocent, albeit also dead from drowning.

    As people adopted the new belief that the world was the terrifying realm of
    the devil, they blamed witches for every misfortune. Since the devil
    created all the ills of the world, his agents- witches- could be blamed for
    them. Witches were thought by some to have as much if not more power than
    Christ: they could raise the dead, turn water into wine or milk, control
    the weather and know the past and future. Witches were held accountable for
    everything from a failed business venture to a poor emotional state. A
    Scottish woman, for instance, was accused of witchcraft and burned to death
    because she was seen stroking a cat at the same time as a nearby batch of
    beer turned sour. Witches now took the role of scapegoats that had been
    held by Jews. Any personal misfortune, bad harvest, famine, or plague was
    seen as their fault.

    The social turmoil created by the Reformation intensified witch-hunting.
    The Reformation diminished the important role of community and placed a
    greater demand for personal moral perfection. As the communal tradition of
    mutual help broke down and the manorial system which had provided more
    generously for widows disappeared, many people were left in need of
    charity. The guilt one felt after refusing to help a needy person could be
    easily transferred onto that needy person by accusing her of witchcraft. A
    contemporary writer named Thomas Ady described a likely situation resulting
    from a failure to perform some hitherto customary social obligation:

        Presently [a householder] cryeth out of some poor innocent neighbour
        that he or she hath bewitched him. For, saith he, such an old man or
        woman came lately to my door and desired some relief, and I denied it,
        and God forgive me, my heart did rise against her... and presently my
        child, my wife, myself, my horse, my cow, my sheep, my sow, my hog, my
        dog, my cat, or somewhat, was thus and thus handled in such a strange
        manner, as I dare swear she is a witch, or else how should these things
        be?

    The most common victims of witchcraft accusations were those women who
    resembled the image of the Crone. As the embodiment of mature feminine
    power, the old wise woman threatens a structure which acknowledges only
    force and domination as avenues of power. The Church never tolerated the
    image of the Crone, even in the first centuries when it assimilated the
    prevalent images of maiden and mother in the figure of Mary. Although any
    woman who attracted attention was likely to be suspected of witchcraft,
    either on account of her beauty or because of a noticeable oddness or
    deformity, the most common victim was the old woman. Poor, older women
    tended to be the first accused even where witch hunts were driven by
    inquisitional procedure that profited by targeting wealthier individuals.

    Old, wise healing women were particular targets for witch-hunters. "At this
    day," wrote Reginald Scot in 1584, "it is indifferent to say in the English
    tongue, 'she is a witch' or 'she is a wise woman.'" Common people of
    pre-reformational Europe relied upon wise women and men for the treatment
    of illness rather than upon churchmen, monks or physicians. Robert Burton
    wrote in 1621:

        Sorcerers are too common; cunning men, wizards and white witches, as
        they call them, in every village, which, if they be sought unto, will
        help almost all infirmities of body and mind.

    By combining their knowledge of medicinal herbs with an entreaty for divine
    assistance, these healers provided both more affordable and most often more
    effective medicine than was available elsewhere. Churchmen of the
    Reformation objected to the magical nature of this sort of healing, to the
    preference people had for it over the healing that the Church or Church-
    licensed physicians offered, and to the power that it gave women.

    Until the terror of the witch hunts, most people did not understand why
    successful healers should be considered evil. "Men rather uphold them,"
    wrote John Stearne, "and say why should any man be questioned for doing
    good." As a Bridgettine monk of the early sixteenth century recounted of
    "the simple people", "I have heard them say full often myself... 'Sir, we
    mean well and do believe well and we think it a good and charitable deed to
    heal a sick person or a sick beast'..." And in 1555 Joan Tyrry asserted
    that "her doings in healing of man and beast, by the power of God taught to
    her by the... fairies, be both godly and good..."

    Indeed, the very invocations used by wise women sound quite Christian. For
    example, a 1610 poem recited when picking the herb vervain, also known as
    St. Johnswort, reads,

        Hallowed be thou Vervain, as thou growest on the ground / For in the
        mount of Calvary there thou was first found / Thou healest our Saviour,
        Jesus Christ, and staunchest his bleeding wound / In the name of the
        Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost / I take thee from the ground.

    But in the eyes of orthodox Christians, such healing empowered people to
    determine the course of their lives instead of submitting helplessly to the
    will of God. According to churchmen, health should come from God, not from
    the efforts of human beings. Bishop Hall said, "we that have no power to
    bid must pray..." Ecclesiastical courts made the customers of witches
    publicly confess to being "heartily sorry for seeking man's help, and
    refusing the help of God..." An Elizabethan preacher explained that any
    healing "is not done by conjuration or divination, as Popish priests
    profess and practice, but by entreating the Lord humbly in fasting and
    prayer..." And according to Calvin, no medicine could change the course of
    events which had already been determined by the Almighty.

    Preachers and Church-licensed male physicians tried to fill the function of
    healer. Yet, their ministrations were often considered ineffective compared
    to those of a wise woman. The keeper of the Canterbury gaol admitted to
    freeing an imprisoned wise woman in 1570 because "the witch did more good
    by her physic than Mr. Pudall and Mr. Wood, being preachers of God's
    word..." A character in the 1593 Dialogue concerning Witches said of a
    local wise woman that, "she doeth more good in one year than all these
    scripture men will do so long as they live..."

    Even the Church-licensed male physicians, who relied upon purgings,
    bleedings, fumigations, leeches, lancets and toxic chemicals such as
    mercury were little match for an experienced wise woman's knowledge of
    herbs. As the well-known physician, Paracelsus, asked, "...does not the old
    nurse very often beat the doctor?" Even Francis Bacon, who demonstrated
    very little respect for women, thought that "empirics and old women" were
    "more happy many times in their cures than learned physicians..."

    Physicians often attributed their own incompetence to witchcraft. As Thomas
    Ady wrote:

        The reason is ignorantiae pallium maleficium et incantatio- a cloak for
        a physician's ignorance. When he cannot find the nature of the disease,
        he saith the party is bewitched.

    When an illness could not be understood, even the highest body of England,
    the Royal College of Physicians of London, was known to accept the
    explanation of witchcraft.

    Not surprisingly, churchmen portrayed the healing woman as the most evil of
    all witches. William Perkins declared, The most horrible and detestable
    monster... is the good witch. The Church included in its definition of
    witchcraft anyone with knowledge of herbs for "those who used herbs for
    cures did so only through a pact with the Devil, either explicit or
    implicit." Medicine had long been associated with herbs and magic. The
    Greek and Latin words for medicine, "pharmakeia" and "veneficium," meant
    both "magic" and "drugs." Mere possession of herbal oils or ointments
    became grounds for accusation of witchcraft.

    A person's healing ability easily led to conviction of witchcraft. In 1590
    a woman in North Berwick was suspected of witchcraft because she was curing
    "all such as were troubled or grieved with any kind of sickness or
    infirmity." The ailing archbishop of St. Andrews called upon Alison
    Peirsoun of Byrehill and then, after she had successfully cured him, not
    only refused to pay her but had her arrested for witchcraft and burned to
    death. Simply treating unhealthy children by washing them was cause for
    convicting a Scottish woman of witchcraft.

    Witch-hunters also targeted midwives. Orthodox Christians believed the act
    of giving birth defiled both mother and child. In order to be readmitted to
    the Church, the mother should be purified through the custom of
    "churching," which consisted of a quarantine period of forty days if her
    baby was a boy and eighty days if her baby was a girl, during which both
    she and her baby were considered heathen. Some thought that a woman who
    died during this period should be refused a Christian burial. Until the
    Reformation, midwives were deemed necessary to take care of what was
    regarded as the nasty business of giving birth, a dishonorable profession
    best left in the hands of women. But with the Reformation came an increased
    awareness of the power of midwives. Midwives were now suspected of
    possessing the skill to abort a fetus, to educate women about techniques of
    birth control, and to mitigate a woman's labor pains.

    A midwife's likely knowledge of herbs to relieve labor pains was seen as a
    direct affront to the divinely ordained pain of childbirth. In the eyes of
    churchmen, God's sentence upon Eve should apply to all women. As stated in
    Genesis:

        Unto the woman [God] said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy
        conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy desire
        shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.

    To relieve labor pains, as Scottish clergymen put it, would be "vitiating
    the primal curse of woman..." The introduction of chloroform to help a
    woman through the pain of labor brought forth the same opposition.
    According to a New England minister:

        Chloroform is a decoy of Satan, apparently offering itself to bless
        women; but in the end it will harden society and rob God of the deep
        earnest cries which arise in time of trouble, for help.

    Martin Luther wrote, "If [women] become tired or even die, that does not
    matter. Let them die in childbirth that is why they are there." It is
    hardly surprising that women who not only possessed medicinal knowledge but
    who used that knowledge to comfort and care for other women would become
    prime suspects of witchcraft.

    How many lives were lost during the centuries of witch- hunting will never
    be known. Some members of the clergy proudly reported the number of witches
    they condemned, such as the bishop of Wurtzburg who claimed 1900 lives in
    five years, or the Lutheran prelate Benedict Carpzov who claimed to have
    sentenced 20,000 devil worshippers. But the vast majority of records have
    been lost and it is doubtful that such documents would have recorded those
    killed outside of the courts.

    Contemporary accounts hint at the extent of the holocaust. Barbara Walker
    writes that "the chronicler of Treves reported that in the year 1586, the
    entire female population of two villages was wiped out by the inquisitors,
    except for only two women left alive." Around 1600 a man wrote:

        Germany is almost entirely occupied with building fires for the
        witches... Switzerland has been compelled to wipe out many of her
        villages on their account. Travelers in Lorraine may see thousands and
        thousands of the stakes to which witches are bound.

    While the formal persecution of witches raged from about 1450 to 1750,
    sporadic killing of women on the account of suspected witchcraft has
    continued into recent times. In 1928 a family of Hungarian peasants was
    acquitted of beating an old woman to death whom they claimed was a witch.
    The court based its decision on the ground that the family had acted out of
    "irresistible compulsion." In 1976 a poor spinster, Elizabeth Hahn, was
    suspected of witchcraft and of keeping familiars, or devil's agents, in the
    form of dogs. The neighbors in her small German village ostracized her,
    threw rocks at her, and threatened to beat her to death before burning her
    house, badly burning her and killing her animals. A year later in France,
    an old man was killed for ostensible sorcery. And in 1981, a mob in Mexico
    stoned a woman to death for her apparent witchcraft which they believed had
    incited the attack upon Pope John Paul II.

    Witch hunts were neither small in scope nor implemented by a few aberrant
    individuals; the persecution of witches was the official policy of both the
    Catholic and Protestant Churches. The Church invented the crime of
    witchcraft, established the process by which to prosecute it, and then
    insisted that witches be prosecuted. After much of society had rejected
    witchcraft as a delusion, some of the last to insist upon the validity of
    witchcraft were among the clergy. Under the pretext of first heresy and
    then witchcraft, anyone could be disposed of who questioned authority or
    the Christian view of the world.

    Witch-hunting secured the conversion of Europe to orthodox Christianity.
    Through the terror of the witch hunts, reformational Christians convinced
    common people to believe that a singular male God reigned from above, that
    he was separate from the earth, that magic was evil, that there was a
    powerful devil, and that women were most likely to be his agents. As a
    by-product of the witch hunts, the field of medicine transferred to
    exclusively male hands and the Western herbal tradition was largely
    destroyed. The vast numbers of people brutalized and killed, as well as the
    impact upon the common perception of God, make the witch hunts one of the
    darkest chapters of human history.

    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
   
    Over a period of almost two millennia, the Christian Church has oppressed
    and brutalized millions of individuals in an attempt to control and contain
    spirituality. The Dark Side of Christian History reveals, in painstaking
    detail, the tragedies, sorrows and injustices inflicted upon humanity by
    the Church. 

    "This is simply a book that everyone must sit down and read. At a time when
    the so called 'religious right' asserts that Christian values will save
    society from its rampant sins, the ordinary citizen should know exactly how
    the Christian Church has attempted to save societies in the past. It is a
    grim lesson, but one that it is imperative to absorb.." --Alice Walker,
    author of The Color Purple, Possessing the Secret of Joy, The Temple of My
    Familiar, et al.

                         The Dark Side of Christian History

    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
   
                       Return to The Nazarene Way main menu

                        The Nazarene Way of Essenic Studies
                      Email us at: Comments@TheNazareneWay.com
                     Join our Essene Holy Communions mail list

