Why there is no god

Skip to content

  • Home
  • Additional Links
  • Quotes

Responses to common theist arguments

┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│This page presents concise rebuttals to the most common arguments and│
│claims made by theists. It also includes relevant links to additional│
│resources. A small number of points deal specifically with           │
│Christianity, however the vast majority are applicable to all forms  │
│of theism. Links marked with (must watch) or (must read) are         │
│considered particularly good at expanding on a topic.                │
│                                                                     │
│Be sure to view the Additional Links and Quotes pages. If you have   │
│any comments or suggestions please leave them at the bottom of the   │
│page.                                                                │
│                                                                     │
│As author I hereby forfeit copyright and declare the content of this │
│page, excluding images and quotes, part of the public domain.        │
│                                                                     │
│For a similar list see: Iron Chariots – 50 reasons to believe in God.│
│                                                                     │
│Translations: Polish                                                 │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

A religious person might say:

 1. The Biblical God is real.

    There is no evidence to support any of the claims made in the Bible
    concerning the existence of a god. Any ‘evidence’ proposed by theists to
    support the Bible’s various historical and supernatural claims is
    non-existent at best, manufactured at worst.

    The Bible is not self-authenticating; it is simply one of many religious
    texts. Like those other texts, it itself constitutes no evidence for the
    existence of a god. Its florid prose and fanciful content do not legitimise
    it nor distinguish it from other ancient works of literature.

    The Bible is historically inaccurate [2], factually incorrect, inconsistent
    [2] and contradictory. It was artificially constructed by a group of men in
    antiquity and is poorly translated, heavily altered and selectively
    interpreted. Entire sections of the text have been redacted over time.

    See also: Visualisation of Bible Contradictions (must read), Argument from
    the Bible, Criticisms of the Bible, Consistency of the Bible, A Compendium
    of Disbelief, Deconversion: The Bible and A History of God (both must
    watch), BBC The History of God.

    Origins of the Bible: PBS Buried Secrets, CH4 Who wrote the Bible? (a must
    watch).

    “Properly read, the bible is the most potent force for atheism ever
    conceived.” – Isaac Asimov

 2. Biblical Jesus was real.

    There is no contemporary evidence for Jesus’ existence or the Bible’s
    account of his life; no artefacts, dwellings, works of carpentry,
    self-written manuscripts, court records, eyewitness testimony, official
    diaries, birth records, reﬂections on his significance or written disputes
    about his teachings. Nothing survives from the time in which he is said to
    have lived.

    All historical references to Jesus derive from hearsay accounts written
    decades or centuries after his supposed death. These historical references
    generally refer to early Christians rather than a historical Jesus and, in
    some cases, directly contradict the Gospels or were deliberately
    manufactured.

    The Gospels themselves contradict one-another [2] on many key events and
    were constructed by unknown authors up to a century after the events they
    describe are said to have occurred. They are not eyewitness accounts. The
    New Testament, as a whole, contains many internal inconsistencies as a
    result of its piecemeal construction and is factually incorrect on several
    historical claims, such as the early existence of Nazareth, the reign of
    Herod and the Roman census. Like the Old Testament, it too has had entire
    books and sections redacted.

    The Biblical account of Jesus has striking similarities with other
    mythologies and texts and many of his supposed teachings existed prior to
    his time. It is likely the character was either partly or entirely invented
    [2] by competing first century messianic cults from an amalgamation of
    Greco-Roman, Egyptian and Judeo-Apocalyptic myths and prophecies.

    Even if Jesus’ existence could be established, this would in no way
    validate Christian theology or any element of the story portrayed in the
    Bible, such as the performance of miracles or the resurrection. Simply
    because it is conceivable a heretical Jewish preacher named Yeshua lived
    circa 30 AD, had followers and was executed, does not imply the son of a
    god walked the Earth at that time.

    The motivation for belief in a divine, salvational Jesus breaks down when
    you accept evolution:

    “Now, if the book of Genesis is an allegory, then sin is an allegory, the
    Fall is an allegory and the need for a Savior is an allegory – but if we
    are all descendants of an allegory, where does that leave us? It destroys
    the foundation of all Christian doctrine—it destroys the foundation of the
    gospel.” – Ken Ham

    See also: Evidence for Jesus, Did Jesus Exist? [2][3], Why I am not a
    Christian (a must read), the Christological Argument, Hitchens – Core of
    the Jesus myth and Christianity is Immoral (both must watch).

    “Christianity: The belief that a cosmic Jewish zombie who was his own
    father can make you live forever if you symbolically eat his flesh and
    telepathically tell him you accept him as your master, so he can remove an
    evil force from your soul that is present in humanity because a rib-woman
    was convinced by a talking snake to eat from a magical tree.” – Anonymous

    [sogk1]

 3. Miracles prove god exists.

    Miracles have not been demonstrated to occur. The existence of a miracle
    would pose logical problems for belief in a god which can supposedly see
    the future and began the universe with a set of predefined laws. Even if a
    ‘miracle’ could be demonstrated it would not immediately imply the
    existence of a god, much less any particular one, as unknown natural
    processes or agents could still be at work.

    Most alleged miracles can be explained as statistically unlikely
    occurrences. For example, one child surviving a plane crash that kills two
    hundred others is not a miracle, just as one person winning the lottery is
    not. In the absence of any empirical evidence, all other claims can be
    dismissed as the result of magical thinking, misattribution, credulity,
    hearsay and anecdote. Eye-witness testimony and anecdotal accounts are, by
    themselves, not reliable or definitive forms of proof for such
    extraordinary claims.

    Divine intervention claims most often concern systems and events for which
    we have poor predictive capabilities, for example, weather, sports, health
    and social/economic interactions. Such claims are rarely made in relation
    to those things we can accurately predict and test e.g. the motion of
    celestial bodies, boiling point of water and pull of gravity. If a god is
    constantly intervening in the universe it supposedly created, then it is
    with such ambiguity as to appear completely indistinguishable from normal
    background chance.

    Note: Theists often fail to adequately apportion blame when claims of their
    particular god’s ‘infinite mercy’ or ‘omnibenevolence’ involve sparing a
    few lives in a disaster, or recovery from a debilitating disease – all of
    which their god would ultimately be responsible for inflicting if it
    existed. See also: Euthyphro dilemma, Confirmation bias, Cherry Picking.

    See also: Argument from Miracles, Why won’t god heal amputees? [Video],
    Spontaneous Remission of Disease, The problem with anecdotes (a must
    watch).

    “Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence.” – Carl Sagan

    “Elite athletes make first place, strange shapes appear on toast and some
    people narrowly escape death, but amputated limbs never regrow, mountains
    never move and food never spontaneously appears in front of the hundreds of
    children that starve to death each hour.” – Anonymous

 4. God is the source of morality.

    Morality is a cultural concept with a basis in evolutionary psychology [2]
    and game theory [2]. Species whose members were predisposed to cooperate
    were more likely to survive and pass on their genes. Reciprocacy, altruism
    and other so-called ‘moral’ characteristics are evident in many species [2
    ]. The neurochemical thought to regulate morality and empathy is oxytocin [
    2].

    Religious texts are simply part of many early attempts to codify moral
    precepts. Secular law, flexible with the shifting moral zeitgeist, has long
    since superseded religion as a source of moral directives for the majority
    of developed societies. Secular ethics offers a number of competing moral
    frameworks which do not derive from a purported supernatural source.

    See also: Dawkins – Source of Morality, Babies can tell right from wrong,
    Moral behaviour in animals, Altruism in Chimps and Toddlers, Trust,
    Morality and Oxytocin (a must watch), Evolution of Cooperation, Science of
    Morality. Animals Cooperating: Monkeys, Birds, Chimps.

    The god character of the Bible is a misogynistic tyrant that condones and
    even orders the practice of slavery, rape of women and murder of children.
    The moment you disagree with a single instruction of the Bible, such as the
    command to kill any bride who is not a virgin or any child who disrespects
    their parents, then you acknowledge that there exists a superior standard
    by which to judge moral action and thus no need to rely on an ancient,
    primitive and barbaric fantasy.

    See also: the Euthyphro dilemma, Epicurus Trilemma, Problem of Evil,
    Morality – Good without Gods (a must watch), Dawkins on Absolute Morality
    (a must watch), The West Wing (a must watch), Deconversion: Morality (a
    must watch).

    “Is God willing to prevent evil, but not able? Then he is not omnipotent.
    Is he able, but not willing? Then he is malevolent.
    Is he both able and willing? Then whence cometh evil?
    Is he neither able nor willing? Then why call him God?” – Epicurus

 5. People need to believe in god / Without god people will do bad things.

    Argument from adverse consequences [2].

    Just because something is perceived as having good consequences if it is
    true, does not actually make it true.

    The fact that religiously free societies with a proportionally large number
    of atheists are generally more peaceful [2][3] than otherwise is evidence
    this perception is incorrect.

    See also: Atheism, Secularity, and Well-Being (a must read).

    “With or without religion, you would have good people doing good things and
    evil people doing evil things. But for good people to do evil things, that
    takes religion.” – Steven Weinberg

    [n579307211]

 6. Atheists can’t know the difference between right and wrong.

    Note: The following answer is a generalisation. Atheists are not a
    homogeneous group. There is no formal moral code resulting from a lack of
    belief. Atheists can and do subscribe to any number of ethical systems, or
    may simply decide such things for themselves.

    Atheists generally derive their sense of right and wrong from an innate [2]
    [3] and reasoned [2] understanding of which actions contribute towards a
    society most hospitable to continual well-being and personal fulfilment.
    They are accountable to their own conscience and to society at large. They
    do not require an absolute standard in order to make distinctions between
    the possible effects of their actions.

    Atheists are attuned to the here and now. Their ethics are not derived from
    some reward or punishment after death, but from a rational consideration of
    the consequences in this life.  Impulsive desires are compassionately,
    empathetically and intelligently [2] weighed against long term personal and
    social goals.

    As social animals that have evolved to want and give love, to have freedom
    and security, we have learned that we are safer, stronger and more
    prosperous in a successful group. Crimes are inherently anti-social
    behaviours that introduce needless risk and are antithetical to the
    long-term needs and goals of a happy, stable society.

    Note: Essentially all theists unknowingly exercise their innate ‘morality’
    or conscience by picking and choosing which parts of their religion to
    follow.

    See also: Enlightened Self-Interest, Secular Ethics, Secular Humanism,
    Secular Morality, Compassion, Empathy, Sympathy, Conscience, Morality –
    Good without Gods (a must watch) Sam Harris – Science and Morality (a must
    watch), Trust, Morality and Oxytocin (a must watch), Christopher Hitchens
    on Atheist morality.

    “I have no need for religion, I have a conscience.” – Anonymous

 7. Lots of people believe in a god.

    Argumentum ad populum. The popularity of an idea says nothing of its
    veracity.

    Geocentrism, a flat earth, creationism, astrology, alchemy and the occult
    were all once pervasive beliefs.

    Furthermore, religions are culturally relative and, for the most part, are
    inconsistent and mutually exclusive.

    “I contend that we are both atheists. I just believe in one fewer god than
    you do. When you understand why you dismiss all the other possible gods,
    you will understand why I dismiss yours.” – Stephen F Roberts

    “A lie is a lie even if everyone believes it. The truth is the truth even
    if nobody believes it.” – David Stevens

 8. God created/caused the universe.

    The First Cause Argument, or Cosmological Argument [2], is internally
    contradictory and raises the following questions: Who or what created god?,
    Why should a hypothetical ‘cause’ have any of the common attributes of a
    god?, Why is the ‘cause’ a specific god?, Why can’t the universe be
    causeless too? and, most importantly, Why rule out all other possible
    explanations?

    It is fundamentally a ‘god of the gaps’ approach. Our current lack of
    understanding concerning the Universe’s origins does not automatically mean
    ‘god’ holds any explanatory value. Metaphysical and theistic speculation
    are not immediately justified or correct simply because we lack a
    comprehensive scientific model. Uncertainty is the most valid position and
    one can honestly say “We just don’t know yet”.

    The argument ignores the fact that our everyday understanding of causality
    has been arrived at via a posteriori inductive reasoning – which means it
    might not apply to everything. Time, for instance, appears to have begun
    with the Big Bang, so there might not have been any ’cause’ for the
    Universe to be an ‘effect’ of since there was probably no time for a
    ’cause’ to exist in. Applying concepts like time and causality to the Big
    Bang might be comparable to asking “What is north of the North Pole?” –
    ultimately nonsensical and incoherent. Furthermore, even if causality could
    be established it would not immediately imply the existence of a god, much
    less any particular one, as the properties and nature of the ’cause’ could
    forever remain a mystery or be naturalistic.

    In fact, something can come from nothing and we are able to observe it in
    the form of virtual particles and quantum vacuum fluctuations. They explain
    why the early universe lacked uniformity and provided the seeds for the
    emergence of structure [2][3]. These quantum phenomena are also causeless
    in the sense that they are objectively and irreducibly random, a fact
    confirmed by tests of non-local realism and Bell’s Theorem.

    Note 1: Theists often state “God is outside of time”. This claim does not
    actually make their speculation correct. Instead, it brings with it a whole
    host of problems and may be immediately dismissed as being without basis
    and a type fallacy known as special pleading.

    Note 2: Cosmogony is the scientific study of the origins of the universe.

    See also: Carl Sagan on the topic (a must watch), Hitchens, Hawking – Did
    God Create the Universe? (a must watch), BBC Horizon – What happened before
    the big bang?, BBC Nothing (a must watch) and ‘A Universe From Nothing’ by
    Lawrence Krauss (a must watch).

    “Some would ask, how could a perfect God create a universe filled with so
    much that is evil. They have missed a greater conundrum: why would a
    perfect God create a universe at all?” – Sister Miriam Godwinson

 9. God answers prayers.

    So does a milk jug. The only thing worse than sitting idle as someone
    suffers is to do absolutely nothing yet think you’re actually helping; in
    other words, praying.

    Belief in the efficacy of prayer is a form of confirmation bias.
    Information and coincidences which, by chance, appear to support the belief
    are favoured and remembered while those that do not are discarded or
    rationalised.  See also: Cherry Picking.

    By incorrectly attributing supernatural causal relationships to otherwise
    minor correlations, prayer becomes a form of self-deception known as
    magical thinking. See also: Wishful thinking.

    For the conceivably large number of prayers that occur over time there are
    relatively few ‘answers’ acknowledged by churches and none that are
    actually demonstrable, such as the healing of amputees or moving of
    mountains.

    Studies have failed to find any evidence for benefits from prayer that
    cannot be ruled out as either the placebo effect or a form of cognitive
    behavioural therapy. In fact, the most comprehensive study performed thus
    far found that hospital patients who were prayed for suffered more
    complications than otherwise.

    See also: Prayer as a superstition, The MANTRA Study, Deconversion: Prayer
    (a must watch), The superstitious pigeon (a must watch).

    “If god is the alpha and the omega. The beginning and the end, knows what
    has passed and what is to come, why do people pray and think it will make
    any difference?” – Mark Fairclough

    “Prayer: To ask the laws of the universe to be annulled on behalf of a
    single petitioner, confessedly unworthy.” – Ambrose Bierce

    “Two hands working can do more than a thousand clasped in prayer.” –
    Unknown

    [100507-prayer-vs-work]
10. I feel a personal relationship with god OR I experienced god.

    Argument from personal experience [2].

    A result of our naturally evolved neurology, made hypersensitive to purpose
    (an ‘unseen actor’) because of the large social groups humans have and the
    way the brain associates pattern with intent.

    Humans have evolved a variety of cognitive shortcuts to deal with the mass
    of information provided by our senses. In particular, we tend to filter
    sensory input according to a set of expectations built on prior beliefs and
    past experiences, impart meaning to ambiguous input even when there is no
    real meaning behind it and infer causal relationships where none exist.

    Personal revelation cannot be independently verified. So-called
    ‘revelations’ never include information a recipient could not have known
    beforehand, such as the time and location of a rare event or answers to any
    number of unsolved problems in science. They are usually emotional or
    perceptual in content and therefore unremarkable among the many cognitive
    processes brains exhibit, including dreams and hallucinations. These
    experiences may even be artificially induced by narcotics or magnetic
    fields. Extreme cases may be diagnosed as a form of schizophrenia or
    psychosis.

    Spiritual and religious experiences are not only inconsistent among
    individuals but are variably attributed to different gods, aliens, spirits,
    rituals, hallucinations, meditation etc. The fact that medical conditions
    and other natural processes [2] can induce these experiences is evidence
    they are produced by our brain.

    See also: NPR Your brain on god?, Hardwired for religion?, Searching for
    God in the Brain, The Economist, BBC Doco, PBS Doco and Dawkins on the
    topic, Deconversion: Personal Relationship (a must watch), TED – How it
    feels to have a stroke (a must watch) and TED – Ramachandran on your mind.

    Papers: Religion and Hippocampal Atrophy.

    “You can tell you’ve created God in your own image when it turns out that
    God hates all the same people you do.” – Anne Lamott

    [QhG4I]
11. People who believe in god are happier.

    The claim that a believer is happier than a skeptic is no more to the point
    than the fact that a drunken man is happier than a sober one. The happiness
    of credulity is a cheap and dangerous quality.

    Atheism is correlated with better scientific literacy [2][3], lower poverty
    rates, higher literacy rates, higher average incomes, less violence, lower
    divorce rates, lower teen pregnancy rates, lower STD infection rates, lower
    crime rates and lower homicide rates. It correlates highly with the
    well-being of individuals and societies by almost every possible measure.

    Atheists can be spiritual (a must watch).

    Studies on happiness outside of predominantly religious countries (eg. the
    United States) find little to no correlation between happiness and
    religious belief. This corresponds with evidence which shows social and
    community bonding, rather than spiritual engagement, explains why religious
    people report greater satisfaction with life. Atheists, by comparison, may
    also simply be unhappy with the level of distrust and persecution they
    receive from their compatriots.

    “Where ignorance is bliss, ’tis folly to be wise.” – Thomas Gray

    “Being an atheist is like being the only sober person in the car – and no
    one will let you drive.” – Anonymous

12. The world is beautiful.

    The Argument from Beauty fails to explain why some things are beautiful to
    some people and not to others, and also fails to establish beauty as
    something immaterial instead of being a subjective neurological response to
    stimuli.

    Human beauty is physical and psychological attractiveness, it helps us
    choose a healthy partner with whom to reproduce. Abstract beauty, like art,
    landscapes and music, are an artefact of culture and the way our brain
    interprets color, shapes and sound.

    The world is not always beautiful: decay/entropy in physical systems and
    disease/death among living creatures are natural functions of physics and
    biology. For example, there exists a species of worm known as Loa Loa
    Filariasis. This parasite lives underneath the skin and inside the eyes of
    human beings. Children and the elderly in tropical regions (usually the
    poorest) are the most widely affected. A slow, painful death is virtually
    certain. A ‘god’, if one exists, would have had to create such an
    organism purposefully – along with all the other diseases, afflictions and
    parasites.

    See also: TED – A Darwinian theory of beauty (a must watch), David
    Attenborough on Beauty and Creation (a must watch), Activation of the
    prefrontal cortex in human visual aesthetic percption (a must read).

    “Isn’t it enough to see that a garden is beautiful without having to
    believe that there are fairies at the bottom of it too?” – Douglas Adams

    “The total amount of suffering per year in the natural world is beyond all
    decent contemplation. During the minute that it takes me to compose this
    sentence, thousands of animals are being eaten alive, many others are
    running for their lives, whimpering with fear, others are slowly being
    devoured from within by rasping parasites, thousands of all species are
    dying of starvation, thirst, and disease. The universe that we observe has
    precisely the properties we should expect if there is, at bottom, no
    design, no purpose, no evil, no good, nothing but pitiless indifference.” –
    Richard Dawkins

    [d4hbs]

13. Smart person X believes in god or ‘You are not qualified’.

    Ad hominem + Argument from Authority.

    Invisible pink unicorns exist. You’re not an expert in them, so you can’t
    say they don’t.

    The validity of a claim, such as the existence of god, is not governed by
    the intelligence of the minds which hold it. Evidence and reason are the
    deciding factors.

    Sir Isaac Newton, one of history’s greatest scientists, was not only
    intensely religious but also believed in alchemical transmutation. Alchemy
    is, however, fully incorrect given our modern understanding of chemistry,
    the atom and nucleosynthysis.

    The fact that an intelligent person holds an irrational belief is simply
    evidence that our brains are able to compartmentalise world-views and
    models from one another, usually in order to maintain a state of ‘ignorant
    bliss’ and escape the discomfort of cognitive dissonance.
14. The universe is fine-tuned for life.

    The Fine-Tuning Argument [2][3][4].

    The universe is extremely hostile to life. Extinction level events have
    nearly eliminated complex life on Earth on five separate occasions. Of all
    the species that have ever lived 99.9% are now extinct. Furthermore, normal
    matter like stars and planets occupy less than 0.0000000000000000000042
    percent of the observable universe. Life constitutes an even smaller
    fraction of that matter again. If the universe is fine-tuned for anything
    it is for the creation of black holes [2] and empty space.

    There is nothing to suggest that human life, our planet or our universe are
    uniquely privileged nor intended. On the contrary, the sheer scale of the
    universe in both space and time and our understanding of its development
     indicate we are non-central to the scheme of things; mere products of
    chance, physical laws and evolution. To believe otherwise amounts to an
    argument from incredulity and a hubris mix of anthropocentrism and god of
    the gaps thinking.

    The conditions that we observe, namely, those around our Sun and on Earth,
    simply seem fine-tuned to us because we evolved to suit them. We cannot
    prove that all other possible forms of life would be infeasible with a
    different set of conditions or constants because the only universe that we
    can observe is the one we occupy. Indeed, modelling [2] suggests star
    formation (a necessary precursor to our form of biology) may be viable
    under a number of different universal conditions.

    Without actual proof of creation, naturalistic explanations [2] for the
    properties of this universe cannot be wholly ruled out. It is possible an
    infinity of universes [2] exist, all with different conditions and forms of
    life. The fact that our particular universe has the physical constants we
    observe may be no more to the point than the fact a hand of cards, dealt
    from a shuffled deck, is the one a hypothetical player holds. Though the
    chances of any one universe being hospitable to life might be low, the
    conditional probability of a form of life observing a set of constants
    suitable to it is exactly unity. That is to say, every possible universe
    would ‘appear’ fine-tuned to the form of life it harbours, while all
    those inhospitable universes would never be observed by life at all.

    See also: Brian Greene – Why is our universe fine-tuned? (a must watch), Is
    the Universe Fine Tuned for Life? (a must watch), The Copernican Principle,
    Cosmic Voyage (a must watch), Dawkins on Fine-tuning (a must watch) and the
    Anthropic Principle, Michio Kaku on Multiverse Theory.

    Additionally: The Great Demotions and A Universe Not Made for Us by Carl
    Sagan (both must watch).

    “The universe is not fine-tuned to life; life is fine-tuned to the
    universe.” – Victor Stenger

    “Imagine a puddle waking up one morning and thinking, ‘This is an
    interesting world I find myself in, an interesting hole I find myself in,
    fits me rather neatly, doesn’t it? In fact it fits me staggeringly well,
    must have been made to have me in it!’ This is such a powerful idea that as
    the sun rises in the sky and the air heats up and the puddle gets smaller
    and smaller, it’s still frantically hanging on to the notion that
    everything’s going to be all right, because this world was meant to have
    him in it, was built to have him in it; so the moment he disappears catches
    him rather by surprise.” – Douglas Adams

    [9th7q]
15. Complexity/Order proves god exists.

    The Teleological argument [2], or Argument from Design, is a non sequitur.
    Complexity does not imply design and does not prove the existence of a god.
    Even if design could be established we cannot conclude anything about the
    nature of the designer (Aliens?). Furthermore, many biological systems have
    obvious defects consistent with the predictions of evolution by means of
    natural selection.

    The appearance of complexity and order in the universe is the result
    of spontaneous self-organisation and pattern formation, caused by chaotic
    feedback between simple physical laws and rules. All the complexity of the
    universe, all its apparent richness, even life itself, arises from simple,
    mindless rules repeated over and over again for billions of years. Current
    scientific theories are able to clearly explain how complexity and order
    arise in physical systems. Any lack of understanding does not immediately
    imply ‘god’.

    Big Bang > Cosmic Inflation > Big Bang Nucleosynthesis > Stellar Formation
    > Galaxy Formation > Stellar Nucleosynthesis > Solar System Formation >
    Earth Formation > Abiogenesis > Evolution

    Note: Crystallisation is one example of how matter can readily
    self-organise into complex, ordered shapes and structures eg. Bismuth.

    See also: The Story of Everything by Carl Sagan (a must watch), BBC – The
    Secret Life of Chaos (a must watch), BBC – The Cell: Spark of Life (a must
    watch), Self-Organisation, Evolution [2], The Watchmaker Analogy, Ultimate
    747 gambit, Junkyard Tornado [2] (Hoyle’s fallacy).

    Additionally: The laryngeal nerve of the giraffe, Evolution of the Eye,
    Chromosome 2, Bacterial Flagellum, TalkOrigins Index to Creationist Claims.

    “The universe is huge and old and rare things happen all the time,
    including life.” – Lawrence Krauss

    “There is grandeur in this view of life, with its several powers, having
    been originally breathed into a few forms or into one; and that, whilst
    this planet has gone cycling on according to the fixed law of gravity, from
    so simple a beginning endless forms most beautiful and most wonderful have
    been, and are being, evolved.” – Charles Darwin

    [spirals2]Spiral patterns in Galaxies, Cyclones, Whirlpools, Broccoli, 
    Shells, BZ Reactions, Subatomic Particles, Fractals and Archimedes Diagram.
    All explainable by natural processes.

16. Love exists.

    Oxytocin, Serotonin and Dopamine.

    Affection, empathy and peer bonding increase social cohesion and lead to
    higher survival chances for offspring.

    See also: Trust, Morality and Oxytocin (a must watch), Pair Bonding in
    animals, Chemical Basis for Love, How Love Works.

    “You do not need the Bible to justify love, but no better tool has been
    invented to justify hate.” – Richard Weatherwax

17. God is the universe/love/laws of physics.

    We already have names for these things. Redefining something as ‘god’ tells
    us nothing. To use the word ‘god’ implies a host of other attributes and if
    you don’t intend to apply those attributes, using the word is intentionally
    misleading.

    “To call the world God is not to explain it; it is only to enrich our
    language with a superfluous synonym for the word ‘world’.” – Arthur
    Schopenhauer

18. Science can’t explain X, therefore god/theism.

    God of the gaps [2]. Argument from Ignorance.

    Simply because you or the scientific community lack a complete
    understanding of something does not imply a theistic explanation carries
    any value. Even if there exists some topic on which science can never
    speak, any understanding could potentially evade us forever – supernatural
    or metaphysical speculation would not automatically be correct. Uncertainty
    is the most legitimate position.

    Lightning, earthquakes, volcanos, disease, mental illness, speciation,
    planetary orbits and numerous other phenomena have been historically
    labelled ‘supernatural’ only to later be more thoroughly and elegantly
    explained by science. In fact, every mystery ever demonstrably solved has
    had a non-supernatural explanation. To suggest that science cannot or will
    not explain a phenomena, and that only theism can, is hubris of the highest
    order.

    Using ‘god’ to explain something explains nothing. God’s supposed powers
    and how they work are a mystery. An explanation is intended to clarify and
    extend knowledge. Attributing a phenomenon to the magical powers of a
    supernatural being does neither. Worse still, this presumption acts to
    prevent any deeper investigation, being little more than a form of blissful
    ignorance.

    Note: By using ‘god’ to fill gaps in their knowledge theists inadvertently
    provide a shrinking role for their god as science advances. They also
    predicate god’s existence on a lack of knowledge, not on any positive
    argument or evidence.

    See also: The God of the Gaps – Neil deGrasse Tyson (a must watch),
    Open-Mindedness (a must watch), Skewed views of science, The faith cake (a
    must watch), Richard Feynman on Doubt and Uncertainty (a must watch),
    Critical Thinking, Magical Thinking, Self-Deception Open-Mindedness (a must
    watch).

    “I am against religion because it teaches us to be satisfied with not
    understanding the world.” – Richard Dawkins

    “Ignorance more frequently begets confidence than does knowledge: it is
    those who know little, not those who know much, who so positively assert
    that this or that problem will never be solved by science.” – Charles
    Darwin

19. Phenomenon X has a non-physical component.

    Baseless assertion. Unfalsifiable. How can you prove it?

    There have been numerous claims of the supernatural, none of which have
    ever been demonstrated to be true. Furthermore, these claims are often
    mutually contradictory, and people who believe in one form of supernatural
    or paranormal activity will usually not believe in others due to cognitive
    bias and wishful thinking.

    Proposing a non-physical explanation for an observed or imagined/fabricated
    phenomena is not a testable hypothesis and is therefore unworthy of serious
    consideration. It precludes any deeper insight or understanding and offers
    no means of distinction from any other possible supernatural claim.

    There are many as yet unexplained phenomena and anomalies in nature. The
    scientific approach to these is to say “I don’t know yet” and keep on
    looking, not to presume an answer which makes us comfortable.

    Note: This claim often represents a deep discomfort with uncertainty or
    ambiguity, demonstrating a lack of critical thinking or poor understanding
    of a topic. It usually coincides with credulity, which is the tendency to
    believe in propositions unsupported by evidence. See also: gullibility.

    See also: Critical Thinking (a must watch), Open-Mindedness (a must watch),
    Nobel Laureate Richard Feynman on Doubt and Uncertainty (a must watch), 
    Delusion, Magical Thinking, Superstition, Self-Deception.

    “What can be asserted without proof can be dismissed without proof.” –
    Christopher Hitchens

    “I don’t feel frightened by not knowing things, I think it’s much more
    interesting that way … I have approximate answers, and possible beliefs,
    and different degrees of certainty about different things, but I’m not
    absolutely sure of anything. I might think about it a little, but if I
    can’t figure it out, then I go to something else. It doesn’t frighten me.”
    – Richard Feynman

20. Materialism/Evidentialism/Science cannot recognise supernatural phenomena.

    Distortion of reality. Lack of Critical thinking. The Dragon in my Garage
    by Carl Sagan. What is real? What constitutes knowledge? Are all
    supernatural claims implicitly true? Why/Why not?

    A person who disbelieves for poor reasons is no better off than someone who
    believes for poor reasons. Disbelieving in astrology because a priest tells
    you to is no better than believing in a god because the same priest tells
    you to do so.

    Science observes the physical universe, makes models of how it works and
    then refines those models through further observation. When something
    interacts with the physical universe, such as through light, motion, sound,
    heat, mass or gravity, it becomes a natural phenomena and thus open to
    scientific inquiry. If it does not interact with the physical universe then
    it cannot be said to exist in any meaningful or perceivable way.
    Furthermore, when supernatural claims become sufficiently nebulous one may
    ask if there is any substantive difference between them being true and
    nothing existing at all.

    Proposing the existence of an entity or phenomena that can never be
    investigated via empirical, experimental or reproducible means moves it
    from the realm of reality and into the realm of unfalsifiable speculation.
    The inability of science to investigate or disprove such a hypothesis is
    not the same as proving it true and neither does it automatically lend
    credence to any metaphysical or theological argument. If such reasoning
    were actually permissible then one could claim anything imaginable to be
    real or true if only because it could not be proven false.

    Relying on supernatural explanations is a cop-out or a dead-end to
    deepening our understanding of reality. If a natural cause for something is
    not known, the scientific approach is to say “I don’t know yet” and keep on
    looking, not to presume an answer which makes us comfortable.

    See also: Skewed views of science (a must watch), Open-Mindedness (a must
    watch), The Dragon in my Garage by Carl Sagan (a must read), Delusion,
    Magical Thinking, Superstition, Self-Deception.

    “Science adjusts it’s understanding based on what’s observed. Faith is the
    denial of observation so that belief can be preserved.” – Tim Minchin

21. I can’t believe/understand a world without God OR No god is too unlikely.

    Argument from incredulity / Lack of imagination and Argumentum ad
    Ignorantiam. Ignores and does not eliminate the fact that something can
    seem incredible or unlikely and still be true, or appear to be obvious or
    likely and yet still be false.

    The world is the way it is. Reality does not bend to our personal whim and
    facts do not cease to exist because they are ignored. Our personal belief
    in something does not automatically make it real or true and, conversely,
    our lack of understanding of a topic does not make it false.

    Until we understand something we “do not know”. Positing a ‘god’ in place
    of admitting personal ignorance is an unfounded leap which demonstrates a
    fundamental lack of humility.

    The existence and non-existence of a god are not equally probable outcomes.
    The majority of things we can possibly imagine do not exist. Thus, belief
    is not as valid a position as skepticism when dealing with unsupported or
    unfalsifiable claims. Agnostic atheism is the most rational position.

    See also: Critical thinking (a must watch), Richard Feynman on Doubt and
    Uncertainty (a must watch).

    “It is far better to grasp the Universe as it really is than to persist in
    delusion, however satisfying and reassuring.” – Carl Sagan

    “God is an ever-receding pocket of ignorance that’s getting smaller and
    smaller as time goes on.”– Neil deGrasse Tyson

    [creationists_fear_reality]
22. There is no evidence god doesn’t exist, so belief is as justified or as
    valid as non-belief.

    Argument from ignorance.

    A common attempt to shift the burden of proof or ‘make room’ for a god.
    Represents a type of false dichotomy that excludes the fact that there is
    insufficient investigation and the proposition has not yet been proven
    either true or false.

    The failure to disprove the existence of something does not constitute
    proof of its existence.

    Belief is not as valid a position as skepticism when dealing with
    unsupported or unfalsifiable claims because all such claims would need to
    be believed implicitly. Agnostic atheism is the most rational position.

    Note: It is possible to gather evidence of absence and disprove specific
    claims about and definitions of a god. [Video]

    See also: Putting faith in its place (a must watch), A Lack of Belief in
    Gods, Critical Thinking.
23. Atheists should prove god doesn’t exist.

    Russell’s teapot.

    The burden of proof is on the person or party asserting the claim; in this
    case, the theist.

    See also: The Dragon in my Garage by Carl Sagan, Invisible Pink Unicorn and
    Flying Spaghetti Monster.
24. Atheism takes faith / is a religion.

    Calling atheism a religion is like calling bald a hair color, or not
    collecting stamps a hobby.

    Atheism is simply a lack of belief in a god or gods, nothing more. If we
    deconstruct the term ‘atheism’ we find ‘a – theism’ which means ‘without –
    theism’ which, in turn, means ‘without – belief in god(s)’. It is,
    therefore, not a positive belief or a claim to knowledge. Instead, it is
    the default position of doubt, uncertainty and skepticism one may have
    regarding claims made by theists. Just as it takes no faith to lack belief
    or remain uncertain concerning any other imaginable claim, it takes none to
    doubt the existence of a god or gods.  See also: Atheism is based on faith,
    Russell’s Teapot.

    Every human-being ever born begins life as an implicit atheist and must be
    taught the concept of theism or, more commonly, indoctrinated with it.

    Atheism has no sacred texts, objects, places or times, no rituals or
    creation stories, no positive beliefs, central tenants, modes of worship or
    supernatural claims, no implicit or derived moral codes, philosophies or
    world views and no central organisation or church. It fulfills none of the
    criteria that define a religion. See also: Atheism is a religion.

    Atheists may subscribe to any additional ideologies, philosophies and
    belief systems they choose, eg. Buddhism, Jainism, Universalism,
    Environmentalism, Pragmatism, Liberalism, Socialism, Libertarianism,
    Conservatism, etc. They may even appreciate components of traditional
    religion and spiritualism, including any supernatural elements unrelated to
    a god. Common among many atheists, however, is an appreciation for
    secularism, rationalism, humanism, skepticism, naturalism, materialism and
    freethinking – none of which are implicit or derived from atheism, nor
    necessary in order to lack belief.

    See also: A Lack of Belief in Gods for a short introduction to atheism (a
    must watch), Sam Harris – Misconceptions about Atheism (a must watch),
    Putting faith in it’s place (a must watch).

    “To say that atheism requires faith is as dim-witted as saying that
    disbelief in pixies or leprechauns takes faith. Even if Einstein himself
    told me there was an elf on my shoulder, I would still ask for proof and I
    wouldn’t be wrong to ask.” – Geoff Mather

25. What about agnosticism?

    Agnosticism is the view that the truth value of certain claims is unknown
    or unknowable. It is a philosophical position not necessarily tied to god’s
    existence or non-existence. One can be agnostic about any claim. The word
    originates from the Ancient Greek ἀ- (a-), meaning “without”, and γνῶσις
    (gnōsis), meaning “knowledge” – “without knowledge”.

    [nosticiest]Most atheists, including famous ones such as Richard Dawkins,
    fall into the category of ‘Agnostic Atheism’ – they don’t claim to know
    with certainty that god does not exist. Conversely, most theists are
    ‘Gnostic Theists’ – they claim to know with certainty that their particular
    god exists.

    When most atheists say “God does not exist” they are generally speaking in
    the same manner as when people say “Leprechauns/Santa Claus/Fairies/
    Unicorns don’t exist” – those things do not appear exist within contextual
    reality in which we find ourselves but, importantly, the statement is not
    necessarily an absolute one.

    There are, however, gnostic atheists who are certain no god exists and they
    generally point to logical problems that would arise from said god’s
    existence or evidence this universe is inconsistent with a god, for
    example:

      □ Infinite Regression
      □ Argument from Poor Design
      □ The Atheist’s Wager
      □ Non-belief Paradox
      □ Omnipotence Paradox
      □ Free Will Paradox
      □ Argument from locality
      □ Argument from Non-reason
      □ Argument from incompatible properties
      □ Fate of the Unlearned
      □ Problem of Evil and Problem of Hell

    See also: The Dragon in my Garage by Carl Sagan.
26. What would convince an atheist of a god’s existence?

    A particular standard of evidence is required to prove any claim. This
    ‘standard’ is adjusted depending upon the nature of the claim. Since god’s
    existence is an extraordinary claim, perhaps the most extraordinary claim,
    proving it requires equally extraordinary evidence.

    The standard of evidence required to prove a god’s existence is immediately
    more than any personal anecdote, witness testimony, ancient book or
    reported miracle – none of which can be considered extraordinarily
    reliable. The human mind is also highly susceptible to being fooled and
    even fooling itself. One could be suffering from an hallucination or a form
    of undiagnosed schizophrenia, hysteria or psychosis, ruling out even our
    own senses as reliable evidence gathering mechanisms in this case. As
    strange as it sounds, misunderstood aliens might even be attempting to
    interact with us using extremely advanced technology. In fact, reality
    itself could be a computer simulation which we unknowingly inhabit.

    Every conceivable argument, every imaginable piece of evidence for god is
    not without some fatal flaw or more likely explanation which precludes it
    from being used as definitive proof. Note: This is not the same as being
    close-minded.

    There is, however, a simple answer to this question: God is what it would
    take to convince an atheist. An omniscient god would know the exact
    standard of evidence required to convince any atheist of its existence and,
    being omnipotent, it would also be able to immediately produce this
    evidence. If it wanted to, a god could conceivably change the brain
    chemistry of any individual in order to compel them to believe. It could
    even restructure the entire universe in such a way as to make non-belief
    impossible.

    In short, a god actually proving its own existence is what would convince
    any atheist of said god’s existence.

    See also: Sunset (a must read), The Dragon in my Garage by Carl Sagan, The
    Argument from nonbelief (a must read), Open-Mindedness (a must watch).

    “Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.” –
    Arthur C. Clark

    “Because if the only way the supreme creator of the entire universe can
    demonstrate his existence to me is to create images of Mary or Jesus on
    food items, I’m not impressed.” – Anonymous

27. I don’t want to go to hell/You will go to hell.

    Pascal’s Wager does not actually argue in support of the existence of a
    god, rather, it simply attempts to coerce insincere worship. There are
    several issues with this approach:

      □ Multiple inconsistent and contradictory revelations (Which god/hell?)
      □ Hell is incompatible with an omnibenevolent god.
      □ A god could reward reasoning/skepticism.
      □ An omniscient god would see through feigned belief as a result of
        coercion.
      □ If a god wanted everyone to believe and knew exactly what was needed to
        convince people, then why are there atheists at all? Is god unable to
        prevent transgression of his will?
      □ Infallible foreknowledge is incompatible with free will (Are atheists
        predestined for hell?)
      □ Most people adhere to the religion they were born into, they have not
        examined all other religions.
      □ What is the fate of the unlearned? What happens to people who have not
        encountered the specific religion in which hell is an issue.

    See also: Dawkins – What if you’re wrong? (a must watch), The Problem of
    Hell,  Hell: An excessive punishment, The Atheist’s Wager.

    “Live a good life. If there are gods and they are just, then they will not
    care how devout you have been, but will welcome you based on the virtues
    you have lived by. If there are gods, but unjust, then you should not want
    to worship them. If there are no gods, then you will be gone, but will have
    lived a noble life that will live on in the memories of your loved ones.” —
    Anonymous

    “We must question the story logic of having an all-knowing all-powerful
    God, who creates faulty Humans, and then blames them for his own mistakes.”
    – Gene Roddenberry

    [vs1od]

28. I want to go to heaven.

    Argument from wishful thinking. The primary psychological role of
    traditional religion is deathist rationalisation, that is, rationalising
    the tragedy of death as a good thing to alleviate the anxiety of mortality.

    See also: Nobody can get into heaven, Hitchens on Life and Death (a must
    watch) Dawkins – We are going to die, and that makes us the lucky ones (a
    must watch).

    “I would love to believe that when I die I will live again, that some
    thinking, feeling, remembering part of me will continue. But much as I want
    to believe that, and despite the ancient and worldwide cultural traditions
    that assert an afterlife, I know of nothing to suggest that it is more than
    wishful thinking. The world is so exquisite with so much love and moral
    depth, that there is no reason to deceive ourselves with pretty stories for
    which there’s little good evidence. Far better it seems to me, in our
    vulnerability, is to look death in the eye and to be grateful every day for
    the brief but magnificent opportunity that life provides.” – Carl Sagan

    “I do not fear death. I had been dead for billions and billions of years
    before I was born, and had not suffered the slightest inconvenience from
    it.” – Mark Twain

29. I want to believe in God OR I just have faith.

    There is a truth and reality independent of our desires. Faith simply
    reinforces your belief in what you would like to be true, rather than what
    really is.

    In order to better under understand this reality and discover the truth we
    must look for evidence outside ourselves.

    Faith isn’t a virtue; it is the glorification of voluntary ignorance.

    See also: Putting faith in it’s place (a must watch), The faith cake (a
    must watch).

    “Every atom in your body came from a star that exploded. And, the atoms in
    your left hand probably came from a different star than your right hand. It
    really is the most poetic thing I know about physics: You are stardust. You
    couldn’t be here if stars hadn’t exploded, because the elements – the
    carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, iron, all the things that matter for evolution
    and for life – weren’t created at the beginning of time. They were created
    in the nuclear furnaces of stars, and the only way for them to get into
    your body is if those stars were kind enough to explode. So, forget Jesus.
    The stars died so that you could be today.” – Lawrence Krauss

30. Believers are persecuted by atheists.

    Blue Laws. Anti-atheist laws. Discrimination against atheists. The written
    penalty for apostasy (leaving a religion) in most religions is death.

    Believers claim the victim and imply that non-theists gang up on them, or
    rally against them. No, atheists just look at believers the same way they
    might look at someone who claims the Earth is flat, or that the Earth is
    the centre of the universe: delusional.

    The bar theists set for perceived atheist hostility appears to be anyone
    simply voicing a dissenting opinion or mentioning an inclination towards
    non-belief. Claiming ‘persecution’ is simply a deflection for theists who
    are unwilling or unable to deal with open criticism.

    When Atheists aren’t considered the least trustworthy [PDF] group and
    comprise more than 70% of the population, then we’ll talk about
    persecution.

    [8xL1A]

31. Why can’t atheists just leave theists alone?

      □ Because religion has been, and continues to be, responsible for
        countless horrors throughout human history. See also: Religiously
        motivated animosity, violence and oppression and discrimination.
      □ For all the problems we face as a society, many theists choose not only
        to do nothing to help, but actually engage in sabotage by actively
        preventing solutions from being instigated, usually by supporting
        irrational political positions e.g. stem-cell research, contraception,
        women’s rights, sexual equality and even global warming.
      □ Because belief in a god taps into mankind’s natural tendency to defer
        moral decision making to authority figures (including priests,
        prophets, holy books, popes, ayatollahs and imams). Acting out ‘God’s
        plan’ or ‘God’s will’ is a sure-fire way to absolve one’s-self of
        responsibility for one’s actions. See also: Cituke.
      □ Because as a functional member of society it benefits everyone if your
        decision making process is founded on evidence and reason, not on
        superstition. Faith isn’t a virtue; it is the glorification of
        voluntary ignorance.
      □ Because religious superstition erects an absolute monarchy in a
        person’s mind. It teaches them to be satisfied with with not
        understanding the world and represents a surrendering to ignorance
        under the pretension of ‘devine knowledge’. Many of the greatest
        thinkers in human history have been repressed, sometimes forcefully, by
        those with faith. It is not skeptics or explorers but fanatics and
        ideologues who menace decency and progress. See also: Hypatia, Galileo
        Galilei, Giordano Bruno, The relationship between science and religion.

    Note: The common theist response “Those people aren’t really [insert
    religion]” is an example of the No True Scotsman fallacy. If all the
    Christians who have called other Christians ‘not really a Christian’ were
    to vanish, there’d be no Christians left.

    See also: The Ethics of Belief (a must read).

    “Men never commit evil so fully and joyfully as when they do it for
    religious convictions.” – Blaise Pascal

    “No belief held by one man, however seemingly trivial the belief, and
    however obscure the believer, is ever actually insignificant or without its
    effect on the fate of mankind” – William Clifford

32. Militant atheists are just as bad as religious ones.

    No, they’re not. There are no calls for slavery, rape or murder in the
    atheist holy book.

    Atheists are most often called ‘militant’ when they passionately defend
    reason and advocate critical thinking. The bar theists set for perceived
    hostility appears to be any atheist simply voicing an opinion in dissent of
    religious belief. In contrast, the bar atheists set for perceived theistic
    hostility is any form of religiously motivated violence or oppression.

    Atheism does not preclude someone from being argumentative or insensitive;
    those things are simply seen as being preferable to killing one another
    over an imaginary friend.

    A ‘militant’ atheist will debate in a University theatre or appeal for the
    separation of religion and government. A militant theist will kill doctors,
    stone women to death, incite religious war, restrict sexual and gender
    equality and convince children they are flawed and worthless – all under
    the instruction of their imagined ‘god’ or holy book.

    It can be argued that there is no such thing as a ‘militant’ atheist, that
    the term is itself a misnomer, because there is simply no ideology or
    philosophy in atheism to be militant about. If an atheist is someone who
    lacks belief in gods, then a ‘militant’ atheist is apparently someone who
    passionately lacks a belief in gods. All other possible beliefs and
    ideologies – including any desire to oppress theism – come from outside
    atheism. This is in contrast to religious belief, which often includes a
    set of laws and commandments purportedly derived from a supernatural source
    about which one can be ‘militant’.

    Note: ‘Militant’ atheism is most often confused with gosateizm (state
    atheism), which was based on the ideology of Marxism-Leninism. It was this
    ideology which was responsible for the oppression and murder of theists
    under several 20th century communist regimes. Atheism is simply a lack of
    belief in gods with no inherit moral, political or philosophical baggage.

    See also: The Ethics of Belief (a must read), Richard Dawkins on Militant
    Atheism, Christian Terrorism, Islamic Terrorism, Atheist Terrorism (no link
    found).

    “I’m sorry if my insensitivity towards your beliefs offends you. But guess
    what – your religious wars, jihads, crusades, inquisitions, censoring of
    free speech, brainwashing of children, forcing girls into underage
    marriages, female genital mutilation, stoning, pederasty, homophobia and
    rejection of science and reason offend me. So I guess we’re even.” – 
    Anonymous

    [unholy_trinity3]

33. Where is god? (Interjection)

    Argument from nonbelief.

    Why is it now that we have developed rational inquiry we hear only a
    deafening silence from a god who once supposedly engaged regularly in human
    affairs? Why does god not simply speak to us or appear before us as he
    supposedly used to? Why are we the losers in the dice roll of time? If a
    god places such a high value on us worshipping and believing then why not
    simply make its existence obvious to us?

    If one accepts the prevailing scientific understanding of the development
    of the universe, yet also believes in one of the major religions, then
    presumably a god sat idle for 13.7 billion years – waiting as the stars,
    galaxies and planets formed. Then it watched with complete and utter
    indifference as modern Homo Sapians evolved, struggled and died for a
    further 150,000 years. Finally, a few thousand years ago, this god suddenly
    decided to reveal itself to several people in the most primitive,
    illiterate and remote portions of humanity in a completely unverifiable way
    – and then simply disappeared.

    See also: Hitchens on God (a must watch).

    “If God had wanted us to believe in him, he would have existed.” – Linda
    Smith

    [capture]
34. The logical problem of Jesus. (Interjection)

    If Jesus is God then presumably he is omniscient. If this is true, then
    when he allowed himself to be sacrificed, didn’t he do this with the
    knowledge that he was immortal? If so, then how exactly was it a sacrifice
    for him? What did he sacrifice?

    “If Jesus is the son of god, but also god himself, then he supposedly
    sacrificed himself to himself to save what he created from himself. He
    also, therefore, prayed to himself and begged himself not to require
    himself be crucified in order to appease himself and save the world from
    the wrath of himself.” – Anonymous

35. Jesus was wholly good and moral.

    Assuming the figure even existed, this position is incorrect.

    “There’s no hell mentioned in the Old Testament. The punishment of the dead
    is not specified there. It’s only with gentle Jesus, meek and mild, that
    the idea of eternal torture for minor transgressions is introduced.” –
    Christopher Hitchens

36. Atheists are close-minded.

    Being open-minded does not mean accepting claims outright, it means
    demonstrating the willingness to consider new ones. An open-minded person
    is receptive to new ideas, opinions and arguments and wants to discover
    their real truth-value before accepting them. Atheists are generally very
    open-minded.

    Unjustified belief in the supernatural does not automatically make someone
    open-minded and, conversely, disbelief – pending further evidence – does
    not automatically make someone close-minded.

    Athiests simply do not usually exhibit gullibility or credulity. They
    maintain a standard of evidence proportional to the extraordinary nature of
    certain claims. They are usually open to the idea of god, but so far
    unconvinced by any evidence or argument put forward to support it.

    See also: Open-mindedness (a must watch), Sam Harris – Misconceptions about
    Atheism (a must watch), The Dragon in my Garage by Carl Sagan.

    “A wise man, therefore, proportions his belief to the evidence” – David
    Hume

37. Atheism leads to a worse society.

    Atheism and secularism correlate highly with the well-being of individuals
    and societies by almost every possible measure.

    Atheism is correlated with better scientific literacy [2][3], lower poverty
    rates, higher literacy rates, higher average incomes, less violence, lower
    divorce rates, lower teen pregnancy rates, lower STD infection rates, lower
    crime rates and lower homicide rates.

    Irreligion by Country, Democracy Index, Education Index, Economic freedom,
    Overall Human Development.

    Atheism is correlated with higher intelligence: Source 1 Source 2 Source 3
    Source 4 Source 5 Source 6 Source 7 Source 8 Source 9.

    See also: Epiphenom – The Science of Religion and Non-Belief

    “I know of no society in human history that ever suffered because its
    people became too desirous of evidence in support of their core beliefs.” –
    Sam Harris

    [1248811308523]
38. Atheism inspired Nazism/Communism/Social Darwinism.

    An ad hominem deflection which demonstrates a failure to understand that
    atheism is simply a lack of belief in god(s), with no inherit moral,
    political or philosophical baggage, and thus no line can be drawn from it
    to the aforementioned ideologies. In the same vein, democracy could be
    called atheistic. See also: Association fallacy, appeal to emotion and
    irrelevant thesis.

    Hitler was religious and publicly decried atheism. See also: Nazism and
    Religion, Reductio ad Hitlerum.

    Stalinism and Communism exercised gosateizm (state atheism) based on the
    ideology of Marxism-Leninism. Atheism was a means to an end, not a cause.
    See also: Soviet Union and Religion.

    Social Darwinism and Eugenics supplant actual natural selection with an
    unobjective personal perception of ‘fitness’. They are based on bad biology
    (genetic variability is actually very important for a species) and are
    completely independent of atheism.

    Darwin observed and described evolution the same way Newton did for
    gravity. It was simply a discovery of a fact about the world – not an
    engineered philosophy on how to behave. Just as we do not blame Newton for
    the fact that gravity is used as a tool in the deployment of bombs, we
    cannot blame Darwin for individually misguided applications of ‘natural
    selection’.

    Note: Religion inspires theocracy.

    Note: ‘Survival of the Fittest‘ does not simply mean fastest, strongest, or
    most violent. It is a measure of an individual’s adaptation to the local
    environment, which can often mean demonstrating cooperation, intelligence
    and compassion [2]. Humans are outmatched in many ways by animals, but are
    successful because of their social skills and tool use.

    See also: Early Critics of Eugenics were biologists, Natualistic Fallacy,
    Evolution and Philosophy, Talkorigins: Hitler, Stalin, Social Darwinism.

    “We were convinced that the people need and require this faith. We have
    therefore undertaken the fight against the atheistic movement, and that not
    merely with a few theoretical declarations: we have stamped it out.” –
    Adolf Hitler

    [priests-sa]

    Catholic priests performing a Nazi salute.

39. Belief gives life meaning/purpose OR Atheism is nihilistic.

    The question of life’s meaning and purpose is made no less important to an
    individual by not believing in a god. However, instead of asking “What is
    the meaning of life?” (which is begging the question) an atheist might ask
    “What meaning, if any, can I give to my life?”.

    Most things in life are worth doing for their own sake, they do not require
    an existential reason. Satisfying curiosity, experiencing love and
    friendship, acting charitably, delighting our senses and achieving personal
    goals all provide an inherit sense of gratification and purpose.
    Conversely, religion deprives life of any personal meaning by turning it
    into a form of serfdom, in which our only goal is to appease the whims of a
    supposed creator and follow its ‘plan’. Any impetus to seek knowledge and
    explore is removed because all the supposed ‘answers’ are provided.

    Beyond simple biological imperatives life’s purpose is what we make it and
    nihilism is just one of many possible approaches. For example, Naturalism
    would suggest that one’s purpose is to ‘foster an environment in which the
    species can survive, either by passing on genes or memes’. Humanism
    suggests it is to ‘promote human flourishing’. Post-modernism suggests it
    is to ‘create complex structures and interactions for the purpose of joy
    and understanding’. Buddhism, which is fully compatible with atheism,
    suggests it is to “focus on the human potential to overcome suffering and
    achieve peacefulness”.

    Perspective is important, within each of our trillion cells we carry a
    genetic heritage, unbroken, stretching back over 4 billion years.

    The Universe, in it’s silent dwarfing beauty, may not care about human life
    – but we do. So our brief and improbable time here may best be spent
    experiencing its wonders together, not in indentured servitude to an
    imaginary celestial dictator.

    See also: Richard Feynman on science and purpose [shorter] (a must watch),
    Dawkins – We are going to die… and we are the lucky ones (a must watch), A
    Reassuring Fable by Carl Sagan.

    “If nothing we do matters, then all that matters is what we do.” – Joss
    Whedon

    “The significance of our lives and our fragile planet is determined only by
    our own wisdom and courage. We are the custodians of life’s meaning. We
    long for a Parent to care for us, to forgive us our errors, to save us from
    our childish mistakes. But knowledge is preferable to ignorance. Better by
    far to embrace the hard truth than a reassuring fable. If we crave some
    cosmic purpose, then let us find ourselves a worthy goal.” – Carl Sagan

40. Science keeps changing, it isn’t reliable.

    The suggestion that science is unreliable because it changes is akin to
    believing new maps are unreliable because cartography is improving.

    Science has demonstrably produced the most accurate and reliable models of
    the universe that mankind has ever known and it is upon these models that
    all modern technology, medicine and industry are based. Science only
    appears to be erratic because of sensationalist reporting in the popular
    media.

    Science keeps changing because the tools used to perform science keep
    improving. When the universe of available evidence changes, scientific
    theories must be re-evaluated. There are no absolute truths in science; all
    laws, theories and conclusions can become obsolete if they are found in
    contradiction with new evidence. However, a scientific theory is the
    highest honour any scientific principle can obtain, for they comprise all
    the evidence, laws and models relevant to an observed phenomena. Theories
    are rarely proven incorrect and are usually refined on a time-scale
    measured in centuries.

    The scientific method is not a single recipe: it requires intelligence,
    intuition, and creativity. It is an ongoing cycle, constantly developing
    more useful, accurate and comprehensive models and methods, but not
    necessarily discarding old ones. For example, when Einstein developed the
    General and Special Theories of Relativity, he did not in any way refute or
    discount Newton’s Principia. On the contrary, if the astronomically large,
    vanishingly small and extremely fast are removed from Einstein’s theories —
    phenomena Newton could not have observed — Newton’s equations are what
    remain. Einstein’s theories are simply expansions and refinements of
    Newton’s theories and thus increase our confidence in Newton’s work while
    providing a deeper understanding. The very same relationship applies to
    Classical Mechanics and Quantum Mechanics, and to Evolution and Genetics.

    Science is an exercise in falsifiability. Unlike religious dogma, which
    presumes the truth, the scientific method is a self correcting process, an
    ever sharpening blade.  The models used by science to explain observations
    and make predictions are simply the ‘most correct’ at the time. The
    greatest skepticism should always be reserved for inflexible positions
    whose proponents insist that they and their assertions are above question
    and examination.

    See also: The nature of science (Chess analogy) by Richard Feynman (a must
    watch), You can’t trust science! (a must watch),  Science Keeps Changing –
    Iron Chariots, The Relativity of Wrong – Isaac Asimov (a must read).

    “Gods are fragile things; they may be killed by a whiff of science or a
    dose of common sense.” – Chapman Cohen

41. Science takes faith / Science is a religion.

    Science is an enterprise that builds and organizes knowledge in the form of
    testable explanations and predictions. The main role of observation and
    experimentation in science is to criticize and refute existing theories.
    Scientific knowledge is created by asking questions and testing conjectures
    /hypotheses against reality.

    Faith is absolute trust or confidence in a belief. Conversely, scientific
    theories are inherently falsifiable – meaning they can be proven wrong. No
    claims of absolute truth are believed or need to be taken ‘on faith’ in
    science because none are made. True scientists say, “We are aware that our
    theories and conclusions are not perfect, just the best fit for the
    available evidence”.

    Scientific knowledge is a form of justified belief grounded in empirical
    evidence and the demonstrable reliability of the scientific method. Faith
    is an unjustified belief based on fantasy, superstition and wishful
    thinking.

    Science converges on the truth via questioning. Its solutions and
    explanations do not differ between nations or cultures because they can be
    tested by anyone, anywhere, anytime. Whatever knowledge science produces is
    valid everywhere. Religion, on the other hand, diverges into a myriad of
    forms and beliefs based on individual experiences and interpretations which
    cannot be tested against reality.

    If all knowledge of science was lost, someone could potentially figure it
    out again. What is true remains true, and anyone could discover that truth
    again using the same method that revealed it in the first place.
    Conversely, if every trace of religion were wiped out and nothing were
    passed on, it would never be created in exactly the same way again.

    Science is the pursuit of truth, not the presumption of it.

    See also: The faith cake (a must watch), Is Science a Religion?, Skewed
    views of science, If science worked like religion – Dawkins (a must watch).

    “Faith does not give you the answers, it just stops you asking the
    questions.”– Frater Ravus

    [2007-01-15]
42. Science is cold/heartless/joyless. It removes beauty and wonder from the
    world.

    On the beauty of a flower by Nobel Laureate Richard Feynman

    A Reassuring Fable by Carl Sagan

    Science saved my soul.

    The most astounding fact by Neil DeGrasse Tyson

    The Story of Everything by Carl Sagan

    The Ultimate Rube Goldberg Machine + Reverse Engineering the Universe.

    Earth – The Pale Blue Dot, Another Interpretation by Carl Sagan

    Unweaving the Rainbow by Richard Dawkins

    A Universe Not Made For Us by Carl Sagan

    The Sagan Series.

    What’s the big idea? by Brian Greene

    “Hydrogen is a light, odorless gas, which, given enough time, turns into
    people.” – Edward R. Harrison

43. If God is the Potter, who are we to say what he does with his clay?

    Why would a perfect potter create an imperfect mold, order it to be perfect
    and then judge it based on the imperfections he gave it?

    [d5wah]

44. Theistic arguments which assume god’s existence are logically valid.

    Simply because a logically valid argument can be constructed does not imply
    a true premise or true conclusion.

    All cups are green.
    Socrates is a cup.
    Therefore, Socrates is green.

    Although the above argument is logically valid, neither its premise nor
    conclusion are actually true. An argument is only sound if it is valid and
    its premise and conclusions are true.

    See also: False Premise.
45. Assuming god exists, arguments against theist claims are illogical/
    fallacious.

    Things can exist in different contexts: God exists, in the sense that God
    is an idea that people have. Atheists can comment perfectly fine on the
    implications of belief and on god as a character without being required to
    believe in god.

    When atheists agree with the premise of a god’s existence for the purpose
    of  showing the absurdity of a theistic argument, they may still question
    conclusions about god’s nature by debating the correctness of the
    inference. For example:

    God exists.
    Therefore, you should worship god.

    Simply because a god may exist, does imply said god requires worship. In
    fact, a  perfect god should, by definition, require nothing. This is known
    as a non sequitur.

    “There is nothing more telling of a person’s fundamental lack of
    perspective and humility than an insistence that if they cannot reconcile
    their beliefs with reality, then reality itself must be wrong.” – Anonymous

46. Atheists presuppose god’s non-existence when making counter arguments.

    Presuppositionalism [2][Wiki].

    Atheists do not presuppose god’s non-existence, atheists are simply
    unconvinced of god’s existence. Arguments made by theists can be refuted
    without appealing to a god’s potential non-existence.

    Arguments made by atheists against god’s existence, be they a priori or a
    posteriori, are not invalid due to the fact that proponents of
    presuppositionalism have failed to establish reason and logic as being
    dependant upon the existence of god.

    See also: The Transcendental argument, Formal Refutations.

One last thing…

    When I became convinced that the universe was natural, that all the ghosts
    and gods were myths, there entered into my brain, into my soul, into every
    drop of my blood, the sense, the feeling, the joy of freedom. The walls of
    my prison crumbled and fell. The dungeon was flooded with light and all the
    bolts and bars and manacles turned to dust. I was no longer a servant, a
    serf, or a slave. There was for me no master in all the wide world, not
    even in infinite space.

    I was free to think. Free to express my thoughts, free to live in my own
    ideal. Free to live for myself and those I loved. Free to use all my
    faculties, all my senses. Free to spread imagination’s wings, free to
    investigate, to guess, and dream and hope. Free to judge and determine for
    myself. Free to reject all ignorant and cruel creeds, all the inspired
    books that savages have produced, and the barbarous legends of the past.
    Free from sanctified mistakes and “holy” lies. Free from the fear of
    eternal pain, free from the winged monsters of the night. Free from devils,
    ghosts and gods. For the first time I was free.

    There were no prohibited places in all of the realm of thought. No error,
    no space where fancy could not spread her painted wings. No chains for my
    limbs. No lashes for my back. No flames for my flesh. No Master’s frown or
    threat, no following in another’s steps. No need to bow or cringe or crawl,
    or utter lying words. I was free; I stood erect and fearlessly, joyously
    faced all worlds.

    My heart was filled with gratitude, with thankfulness, and went out in love
    to all the heros, the thinkers who gave their lives for liberty of hand and
    brain, for the freedom of labor and thought to those who fell on the fierce
    fields of war. To those who died in dungeons, bound in chains, to those by
    fire consumed, to all the wise, the good, the brave of every land whose
    thoughts and deeds have given freedom to the sons of men. And then, I vowed
    to grasp the torch that they held, and hold it high, That light might
    conquer darkness still.

    -Robert Green Ingersoll (1833-1899)

    What now?

Continue to Additional Links.

OR

Begin watching the Christian Deconversion Series, Carl Sagan’s ‘A Universe Not
Made For Us’ or The Sagan Series.

If you want to support this page and its content please consider donating:
[x-click-bu]

Share this:

  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)
  • More
  • 

  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

4,393 Responses to Responses to common theist arguments

← Older Comments

 1. FRANKLINE MBISHA KIDAKWA says:
    January 22, 2016 at 5:00 pm

    Wow, this is good content. You can get similar content at http://
    www.franklinembisha.wordpress.com

    LikeLike

 2. jamesg1951 says:
    January 20, 2016 at 1:06 am

    I agree with what you said about agnostics, but atheist who say there is no
    God are as stupid and idiotic as theists who are not ready to give a reason
    for why they choose to believe there is a God.
    We all strive for perfection, to be better than we are. That is the god we
    seek to know. There are consequences for making the wrong and right
    choices. Those consequences are the God we answer to. But we can also
    recover from making the wrong choices if we admit we are wrong and stop
    doing it before it is to late we can heal and become a new and different
    and better person by doing so. I hope someday you will come to know that
    God.

    LikeLike

 3. Aaron E Saxton says:
    January 19, 2016 at 4:32 pm

    Believing in God is a mistake anyone can be born and raised into.

    Maintaining that belief after one has received an introduction to critical
    thinking requires stupidity coupled with an equal portion of cowardice.

    If a proven observation discredits what one thought was to be true, and one
    rejects the observation as truth and instead embraces belief, we bear
    witness to brainwashing self imposed, complete and forever lasting.

    Such a person will never know they were brainwashed, as they no longer know
    themselves.

    An agnostic person is one who is capable of questioning anything and
    incapable of grasping pure logic.

    LikeLike

 4. Bruce Williams says:
    January 1, 2016 at 8:23 am

    Realizing that in the 300,000 years since animism was first documented,
    “religion has been, and continues to be, responsible for countless horrors
    throughout human history.” why has Atheism not stopped all this violance?
    Atheists have had 300,000 years. What makes you think they will accomplish
    it now? The 3 Abrahamic religions have been waiting for the “rapture” to
    save everyone for about 3,000 years or so. Atheists have been waiting for
    300,000 and accomplished just as much they have.

    LikeLike

 5. Anonymous says:
    December 19, 2015 at 12:23 pm

    God has nothing to do with religion. If you ever took the time to read the
    words attributed to Jesus you would see his main criticisms were toward the
    religious people.
    God is the spirit of truth and rightness. It is truth and doing the right
    thing that will reward you and bring you to the conceptual heaven in life
    do the wrong things and you will suffer a relative hell in life.

    LikeLike

 6. Anonymous says:
    December 19, 2015 at 12:12 pm

    I hope you didn’t say that with a straight face. Our innate morality?
    Perhaps you have not noticed that we have used our great morality to
    enslave and murder our fellow humans and now have created weapons of mass
    destruction to do so more efficiently.

    LikeLike

 7. Anonymous says:
    December 19, 2015 at 8:07 am

    oumanflint1 said about gods:
    “there is not ONE that doesn’t require and depend on faith in it’s
    existence”

    That in a nutshell is the reason you should not believe. I am actually
    writing to give all atheists hope. Sometimes it seems that people will
    continue to wallow in their ignorance and wave around their faith like it’s
    something to be admired. But then there are rays of light and hope. I just
    had one such experience. I have a very religious friend who I have known
    for almost 20 years, We don’t talk about religion much as we are on
    opposite ends of the spectrum. The few times we have I have made my case
    but not been pushy. We have shared a couple of books back and forth but
    that’s been about it for religious discussion. I was having breakfast with
    her the other day and out of nowhere she said “the more I know, the harder
    it is to keep my faith”. Wow! I was floored. I didn’t pursue it or try to
    convince her further. I just smiled. Because if this hardcore Catholic can
    come to this realization, there is hope for so many more!

    LikeLike

 8. Satan Sodomises Theists says:
    December 19, 2015 at 12:39 am

    If we’d not been following innate morality, that we need to work together,
    not kill each other or that we need to fuck in the ‘right’ hole for
    procreation, or just stole and took before we ended up atop of Mt Sinai, we
    wouldn’t have MADE it to that point to BE on Mt Sinai. QED. We’re innately
    moral. No godS involved.

    LikeLike

 9. Anonymous says:
    December 18, 2015 at 11:53 pm

    God shows himself constantly many times a day but atheists close their eyes
    put their fingers in their ears and repeat the refrain over and over ” la
    la la la, I can’t hear you “

    LikeLike

10. Anonymous says:
    December 18, 2015 at 11:51 pm

    It is amazing how stupid atheists are when it comes to comprehending
    concepts such as faith. When humans have children for the first few years
    children must do what their parents tell them by faith because they do not
    have the knowledge to understand the reason for their parents rules. The
    same is true of people. How stupid are the humans who are destroying our
    planet simply because they refuse to refrain from polluting it, draining
    its resources and killing each other with weapons of mass destruction. If
    you just followed the Ten Commandments and golden rule by faith the world
    would be a better place.

    LikeLike

11. Satan Sodomises Theists says:
    December 18, 2015 at 7:04 pm

    In like Flynn. Great movies. Haaaaw, Jellybeans! Love it.

    LikeLike

12. ourmanflint1 says:
    December 18, 2015 at 12:03 pm

    It’s amazing how among the minimally 1000+ deities that theists believe in,
    there is not ONE that doesn’t require and depend on faith in it’s
    existence. It seems reasonable that of those gods at LEAST ONE would show
    itself on a regular and predictable basis in a way that can’t be explained
    by science or nature. Anything small or large. Move a mountain or make it
    rain jellybeans. Anything.

    LikeLike

13. Anonymous says:
    December 16, 2015 at 10:19 pm

    Of course something created the universe. Everyday open your eyes and
    become aware of something around you, you have created that universe just
    by imagining it. The universe does not exist until an awareness conceives
    of it and defines it into existence. I remember a very old tv show that
    presented a metaphorical recreation of how the moments between time were
    constantly being created. That instant between then and now or now and
    then. Now is always being created and has always been being created. Even
    before your Big Bang thing went bang it had to exist before it could go
    bang. You can never get past the law of the conservation of energy until
    you admit the very laws you demand to define your universe are not written
    in stone.. Hahahahaha

    LikeLike

← Older Comments

Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Enter your comment here...
[                    ]

Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • 

Gravatar
Email (Address never made public)
Name
[                    ]
Website
[                    ]
WordPress.com Logo

You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )

Twitter picture

You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )

Facebook photo

You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )

Google+ photo

You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )

Cancel

Connecting to %s

[ ] Notify me of new comments via email.

[Post Comment] 

Why there is no god
The Twenty Ten Theme. Blog at WordPress.com.
Follow

Follow “Why there is no god”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 116 other followers

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address Your Name [                    ] Your Email Address 
[                         ]
loading [Send Email] Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:

[b]
