Skip to main content
Copyright (C) 2016 By Edge Foundation, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Edge.org
Edge.org
 
 
 
Get Edge.org by Email

Subscribe to Edge

x

You can subscribe to Edge and receive e-mail versions of EdgeEditions as they
are published on the web. Fill out the form, below, with your name and e-mail
address and your subscription will be automatically processed.

Email address *
Your name * [                    ]
Country * [                    ]
[                    ]
[subscribe]
NOTE: if you use a spam-filter that uses a challenge/response or authenticated
e-mail address system, you must include "editor@edge.org" on your list of
approved senders or you will not receive our e-mail.

unsubscribe

To arrive at the edge of the world's knowledge, seek out the most complex and
sophisticated minds, put them in a room together, and have them ask each other
the questions they are asking themselves.

http://edge.org/
Printed On Sat January 23rd 2016
Sat, Jan 23, 2016

  • HOME
  • CONVERSATIONS
  • VIDEOS
  • ANNUAL QUESTION
  • EVENTS
  • NEWS
  • LIBRARY
  • ABOUT

Conversation
MIND

The Crusade Against Multiple Regression Analysis

A Conversation With Richard Nisbett [1.21.16]
[Nisbett640]

A huge range of science projects are done with multiple regression analysis.
The results are often somewhere between meaningless and quite damaging. ...   
                         

I hope that in the future, if I’m successful in communicating with people about
this, that there’ll be a kind of upfront warning in New York Times articles:
These data are based on multiple regression analysis. This would be a sign that
you probably shouldn’t read the article because you’re quite likely to get
non-information or misinformation.

RICHARD NISBETT is a professor of psychology and co-director of the Culture and
Cognition Program at the University of Michigan. He is the author of Mindware:
Tools for Smart Thinking; and The Geography of Thought. Richard Nisbett's Edge 
Bio Page.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

THE CRUSADE AGAINST MULTIPLE REGRESSION ANALYSIS

The thing I’m most interested in right now has become a kind of crusade against
correlational statistical analysis—in particular, what’s called multiple
regression analysis. Say you want to find out whether taking Vitamin E is
associated with lower prostate cancer risk. You look at the correlational
evidence and indeed it turns out that men who take Vitamin E have lower risk
for prostate cancer. Then someone says, "Well, let’s see if we do the actual
experiment, what happens." And what happens when you do the experiment is that
Vitamin E contributes to the likelihood of prostate cancer. How could there be
differences? These happen a lot. The correlational—the observational—evidence
tells you one thing, the experimental evidence tells you something completely
different.

 

Continue Reading →

  • Tweet Widget
  • Facebook Like
  • Google Plus One
  • Linkedin Share Button
  • Share on Facebook
  • Pinterest
  • Print Mail logo
  • Print HTML logo

Annual Question

WHAT DO YOU CONSIDER THE MOST INTERESTING RECENT [SCIENTIFIC] NEWS? WHAT MAKES
IT IMPORTANT?

"I am both thrilled and frightened." 
—John C. Mather, Nobel Laureate, Physics
[double_tul]
"Double Tulips 2016" by Katinka Matson |  Click to Expand | katinkamatson.com


Scientific topics receiving prominent play in newspapers and magazines over the
past several years include molecular biology, artificial intelligence,
artificial life, chaos theory, massive parallelism, neural nets, the
inflationary universe, fractals, complex adaptive systems, superstrings,
biodiversity, nanotechnology, the human genome, expert systems, punctuated
equilibrium, cellular automata, fuzzy logic, space biospheres, the Gaia
hypothesis, virtual reality, cyberspace, and teraflop machines. ... Unlike
previous intellectual pursuits, the achievements of the third culture are not
the marginal disputes of a quarrelsome mandarin class: they will affect the
lives of everybody on the planet.

You might think that the above list of topics is a preamble for the Edge
Question 2016, but you would be wrong. It was a central point in my essay, "The
Third Culture," published 25 years ago in The Los Angeles Times, 1991 (see
below). The essay, a manifesto, was a collaborative effort, with input from
Stephen Jay Gould, Murray Gell-Mann, Richard Dawkins, Daniel C. Dennett, Jared
Diamond, Stuart Kauffman, Nicholas Humphrey, among other distinguished
scientists and thinkers. It proclaimed:

The third culture consists of those scientists and other thinkers in the
empirical world who, through their work and expository writing, are taking the
place of the traditional intellectual in rendering visible the deeper meanings
of our lives, redefining who and what we are.

"The wide appeal of the third-culture thinkers," I wrote, "is not due solely to
their writing ability; what traditionally has been called 'science' has today
become 'public culture.' Stewart Brand writes that 'Science is the only news.
When you scan through a newspaper or magazine, all the human interest stuff is
the same old he-said-she-said, the politics and economics the same sorry cyclic
dramas, the fashions a pathetic illusion of newness, and even the technology is
predictable if you know the science. Human nature doesn't change much; science
does, and the change accrues, altering the world irreversibly.' We now live in
a world in which the rate of change is the biggest change." Science has thus
become a big story, if not the big story: news that will stay news.

This is evident by the continued relevance today of the scientific topics in
the 1991 essay that were all in play before the Web, social media, mobile
communications, deep learning, big data. Time for an update. …

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

WHAT DO YOU CONSIDER THE MOST INTERESTING RECENT [SCIENTIFIC] NEWS? WHAT MAKES
IT IMPORTANT?

        "Stellar read! Best of the year already. Truly impressed again by the
        intellectual firepower of Edge."  —Süddeutsche Zeitung

        "I’ve just treated myself to the first third, roughly, of this year’s 
        Edge answers. Addictive, fascinating, exciting—even on topics that I
        already knew quite a lot about. Very high quality."   —Daniel C.
        Dennett

        "What is the most interesting scientific news? Very, VERY smart
        people respond." —BoingBoing

        "The Question pushed divergence, and that’s where the wealth of the 
        Edge network is." —Stewart Brand 

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
 

 [Contents]   [Manuscript]

John Brockman, Publisher & Editor
Russell Weinberger, Associate Publisher
Nina Stegeman, Associate Editor
Katinka Matson, Co-founder & Resident Artist

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                 [EdgeQuesti]

 [ click for full media coverage of the 2016 Edge Question ] 

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                 [IlSole24NE]

                     The News of Science Have Consequences
                               By Luca De Biase

n. 510 | Domenica 10 gennaio 2016

[Nova_edgei]

Nova magazine features contributions from Peter Gabriel, Kevin Kelly, and Bill
Joy

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[Fazfeature]
Nineteen reasons why marriages succeed

From Gene-knives and autistic neurons: The Scholars Association "Edge
Foundation" asked well-known researchers, what is revolutionizing the
sciences.The result is a fascinating kaleidoscope of new knowledge and methods.

[FAZ_image]
By Manuela Lenzen

January 21, 2016

The big bang may not have been such a huge thud, as we imagine. Drones
revolutionize not only the war, but also the research on wild
animals. Two-thirds of all cancers are due to random mutations. And three
principles are sufficient to define rationality. All answers to the question
placed before the scientists of the "Third Culture" of American literary agent
John Brockman: "What is the most interesting scientific news? And what makes
them so important?"

For almost twenty years Brockman puts on his online forum edge.org regularly
such a question: "What do you think is right, even if you can not prove it?"
(2005), "What do you ask yourself?" (1998), "What is the scientific idea is
ready for retirement?" (2014). For "Third Culture" is one of Brockman
researchers from natural sciences and humanities, discuss their findings in a
larger, multi-disciplinary and social context.

In his this year's question Brockman got 198 very different answers. They range
from knowledge about the importance of microbes in the digestive tract of new,
resource-saving battery technologies and 3D printers in the medical technology
to intelligently networked "green cities". The crisis of psychology, triggered
by too many non-reproducible results, just missing a little like a study for
vaccination against Ebola and one of the testing, "autistic neurons" to grow in
the petri dish. [Continue...]

Read highlighted contributions from: Randolph Nesse, Andy Clark, Thalia
Wheatley, Thomas Metzinger, Gary Klein, Jared Diamond.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

EDGE week in Germany - "the Feuilleton Section of SZ is publishing one
unabridged text every day this week."[SZ_F_banne]
[SZ_5]
Caption: For musician Peter Gabriel it might not take long until we open our
thoughts as easily as a can.

Day 5: Open Water—The Internet of Visible Thought
Nr 12, Samstag/Sonntag, 16./17. Januar 2016

Brain scanners are getting better and cheaper. What could this mean for us? A
vision. By Peter Gabriel

[ English, Edge.org | German Translation ]

 

Continue Reading →

  • Tweet Widget
  • Facebook Like
  • Google Plus One
  • Linkedin Share Button
  • Share on Facebook
  • Pinterest
  • Print Mail logo
  • Print HTML logo

Conversation
CULTURE

What people are reading in Malaysia

Photos from Borders bookstore in Kuala Lumpur Edge Editor [1.13.16]

[intellectu]
[BordersGar]

 

Continue Reading →

  • Tweet Widget
  • Facebook Like
  • Google Plus One
  • Linkedin Share Button
  • Share on Facebook
  • Pinterest
  • Print Mail logo
  • Print HTML logo

Conversation
Conversations

A MESSAGE FROM PARIS

An EDGE Special Event! by Ian McEwan [11.14.15]
[ian]

ED. NOTE: Ian McEwan, who is living in France this month, sent the following
email this afternoon from Paris which he asked us to share with the Edge
community. And the community is responding - we are pleased to include a
Reality Club discussion with contributions from: Scott Atran, Daniel L. Everett
, Dan Sperber, James J. O'Donnell, Lawrence B. Brilliant, Lisa Randall, Lee
Smolin, John Tooby, Eduardo Salcedo-Albaran. More to come....

JB 

IAN MCEWAN, the award-winning British novelist, is the author of The Child in
Time (winner of the Whitbread Novel of the Year Award, 1987), Amsterdam (winner
of the Booker Prize, 1998), Atonement, Sweet Tooth, and The Children Act. He
lives in London. Ian McEwan's Edge Bio Page. 

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

The death cult chose its city well—Paris, secular capital of the world, as
hospitable, diverse and charming a metropolis as was ever devised. And the
death cult chose its targets in the city with ghoulish, self-damning
accuracy—everything they loathed stood plainly before them on a happy Friday
evening: men and women in easy association, wine, free-thinking, laughter,
tolerance, music—wild and satirical rock and blues. The cultists came armed
with savage nihilism and a hatred that lies beyond our understanding. Their
protective armour was the suicide belt, their idea of the ultimate hiding place
was the virtuous after-life, where the police cannot go. (The jihadist paradise
is turning out to be one of humanity’s worst ever ideas; slash and burn in this
life, eternal rest among kitsch in the next).

 

Continue Reading →

  • Tweet Widget
  • Facebook Like
  • Google Plus One
  • Linkedin Share Button
  • Share on Facebook
  • Pinterest
  • Print Mail logo
  • Print HTML logo

Conversation
CULTURE

What is Reputation?

A Conversation With Gloria Origgi [11.5.15]
[Origgi]

NEW — A Reality Club discussion with responses from: Abbas Raza, William
Poundstone, Hugo Mercier, Quentin Hardy, Martin Nowak and Roger Highfield, 
Bruce Schneier, Kai Krause, Sumit Paul-Choudhury, Margaret Levi.

That is basically what interests me—the double question of understanding our
own biases, but also understanding the potential of using this indirect
information and these indirect cues of quality of reputation in order to
navigate this enormous amount of knowledge. What is interesting about Internet,
and especially about the Web, is that Internet is not only an enormous
reservoir of information, it is a reputational device. It means that it
accumulates tons of evaluations of other people, so the information you get is
pre-evaluated. This makes you go much faster. This is an evolutionary heuristic
that we have, probably since the birth of the human mind.

Follow the people who know how to treat information. Don't go yourself for the
solution. Follow those who have the solution. This is a super strong drive—to
learn faster. Children know very well this drive. And of course it can bring
you to conformism and have very negative side effects, but also can make you
know faster. We know faster, not because there is a lot of information around,
but because the information that is around is evaluated; it has a reputational
label on it. 

Introduction

This Edge feature is our second foray into the idea of "reputation" in the age
of the Internet. The first, in December 2004, "Indirect Reciprocity, Assessment
Hardwiring, And Reputation": A Conversation with Karl Sigmund, occurred in
another era (or was it another planet): no iPhones, no Facebook, no Twitter. We
were sending faxes through our PCs and Macs attached to modems, and short
messages through our pagers.

At that time Sigmund said, "In the early 70s, I read a famous paper by Robert
Trivers, one of five he wrote as a graduate student at Harvard, in which the
idea of indirect reciprocity was mentioned obliquely. He spoke of generalized
altruism, where you are giving back something not to the person you owed it to
but to somebody else in society. This sentence suggested the possibility that
generosity may be a consideration of how altruism works in evolutionary
biology."

"I am often thinking about the different ways of cooperating," he added, "and
nowadays I'm mostly thinking about the strange aspects of indirect reciprocity.
Right now it turns out that economists are excited about this idea in the
context of e-trading and e-commerce. In this case you also have a lot of
anonymous interactions, not between the same two people but within a hugely
mixed group where you are unlikely ever to meet the same person again. Here the
question of trusting the other, the idea of reputation, is particularly
important. Google Page Rankings, the reputation of eBay buyers and sellers, and
Amazon reader reviews are all based on trust, and there is a lot of moral
hazard inherent in these interactions."

Gloria Origgi, whose previous Edge feature, "Who's Afraid Of The Third Culture?
" appeared in these pages in 2006, is an exemplar of the Third Culture in
Europe. According to philospher Daniel C. Dennett, she has completely mastered
everything from philosophy to neuroscience, moving gracefully through the
conceptual jungles of everything from neuroscience to cognitive science to
anthropology. A Parisian, she is an antidote to that European genre of French
thought that creates the illusion of depth and profundity that Dennett calls
"Eumerdification"*.

In "What Is Reputation?" Origgi talks about "the double question of
understanding our own biases, but also understanding the potential of using
this indirect information and these indirect cues of quality of reputation in
order to navigate this enormous amount of knowledge.

"What is interesting about Internet, and especially about the Web, is that
Internet is not only an enormous reservoir of information, it is a reputational
device. It means that it accumulates tons of evaluations of other people, so
the information you get is pre-evaluated. This makes you go much faster. This
is an evolutionary heuristic that we have, probably since the birth of the
human mind.

"Follow the people who know how to treat information. Don't go yourself for
the solution. Follow those who have the solution. This is a super strong
drive—to learn faster. Children know very well this drive. And of course it can
bring you to conformism and have very negative side effects, but also can make
you know faster. We know faster, not because there is a lot of information
around, but because the information that is around is evaluated; it has a
reputational label on it."

GLORIA ORIGGI is a researcher at the Centre Nationale de la Recherche
Scientifique in Paris and a journalist. She is a best-selling novelist in the
Italian language, a respected philosopher in French, a cognitive scientist in
English, and the person you want to sit next to at a dinner party. Her latest
book, La Reputation, was recently published in France. Gloria Origgi's Edge Bio
Page.

[* Dennett writes in his book Breaking The Spell: "John Searle once told me
about a conversation he had with the late Michel Foucault: 'Michel, you're so
clear in conversation; why is your written work so obscure?' To which Foucault
replied, 'That's because, in order to be taken seriously by French
philosophers, twenty-five percent of what you write has to be impenetrable
nonsense.' I have coined a term for this tactic, in honour of Foucault's
candor: eumerdification."]

                                                                 —John Brockman

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

WHAT IS REPUTATION?

I'm a philosopher and I do some social sciences, but basically I stick to
philosophy in my method, in my way of tackling questions. I was interested in
epistemology, in questions about knowledge. At a certain point in the early
2000s, Internet became such a major phenomenon that I started to be interested
in transformations of the ways in which we organize, access, produce, and
distribute knowledge that was dependent on the introduction of Internet in our
lives.

I was interested in the question of trust. It seems like a paradox. The
traditional view of knowledge in philosophy and epistemology is that you should
not trust, and you should be an autonomous thinker. You should have in your own
mind the means to filter information, and to infer new knowledge from what you
already know without taking into account the opinion of others. The opinion of
others is doxa, and episteme—the true knowledge—is the opposite, being an
autonomous knower. With Internet and this hyperconnectivity in which knowledge
started to spin around faster than light, I had the feeling that trust was
becoming a very important aspect of the way in which we acquire knowledge.

 

Continue Reading →

  • Tweet Widget
  • Facebook Like
  • Google Plus One
  • Linkedin Share Button
  • Share on Facebook
  • Pinterest
  • Print Mail logo
  • Print HTML logo

Reading List

New Books by Edgies

[12.18.15]

[Newbooks_1]

 

Continue Reading →

  • Tweet Widget
  • Facebook Like
  • Google Plus One
  • Linkedin Share Button
  • Share on Facebook
  • Pinterest
  • Print Mail logo
  • Print HTML logo

Reading List

Edge Library

[12.18.15]

[EdgeLibrar]

 

Continue Reading →

  • Tweet Widget
  • Facebook Like
  • Google Plus One
  • Linkedin Share Button
  • Share on Facebook
  • Pinterest
  • Print Mail logo
  • Print HTML logo

Subscribe to Front page feed

RECENT CONVERSATIONS AT EDGE.ORG →

[Machines_Cover_lg]
What to Think About Machines That Think
Edge Annual Question Series
Edited by
John Brockman
[10.6.15]

People Contributing to Edge.org →

 [pict]
 [bk_7]
 [bk_2]
 [pict]
 [bk_1]
 [bk_3]
 [pict]
 [bk_7]
 [bk_3]
 [bk_4]
 [pict]
 [pict]
 [pict]
 [pict]
 [pict]
 [pict]
 [bk_4]
 [bk_2]

LATEST NEWS →

[700_WSJ]
Notable & Quotable
Wall Street Journal [11.15.15]

[Rose]

From a blog post, “A Message From Paris,” by British novelist Ian McEwan for
edge.org, Nov. 14:

The death cult chose its city well—Paris, secular capital of the world, as
hospitable, diverse and charming a metropolis as was ever devised. And the
death cult chose its targets in the city with ghoulish, self-damning
accuracy—everything they loathed stood plainly before them on a happy Friday
evening: men and women in easy association, wine, free-thinking, laughter,
tolerance, music—wild and satirical rock and blues. The cultists came armed
with savage nihilism and a hatred that lies beyond our understanding. Their
protective armour was the suicide belt, their idea of the ultimate hiding place
was the virtuous after-life, where the police cannot go. (The jihadist paradise
is turning out to be one of humanity’s worst ever ideas; slash and burn in this
life, eternal rest among kitsch in the next).

Paris, dazed and subdued, woke this morning to reflect on its new
circumstances. ...

Read the full article →

[Edge_McNallys]
Edge Annual Question Books at McNally's, Canada's Premier Independent Bookstore
[12.17.15]

Read the full article →

[460_Boston]
Story Behind the Book: holiday tips from Greater Boston booksellers
Kate Tuttle, The Boston Globe [12.16.15]

Just about everyone, no matter how tech-enamored or word-weary, appreciates
receiving a book as a holiday gift. So, we decided to ask local booksellers
which titles have been flying off their shelves — and see whether they had any
special recommendations for hidden gems. ...

Jane Stiles at Wellesley Books added that the novels “The Japanese Lover” by
Isabel Allende and “Avenue of Mysteries” by John Irving were popular gift
choices this year. At Papercuts J.P., one of the area’s newest bookstores,
owner Kate Layte said nonfiction has been very popular this year, including
many of the titles already mentioned, along with Helen MacDonald’s memoir “H Is
for Hawk.”

In addition, Layte said, “there are some great paperback originals I’ve been
selling lots of like ‘An Indigenous Peoples’ History of the United States’ by
Roxanne Dunbar-Ortiz, ‘The Best American Infographics 2015’ — the editor,
Gareth Cook, lives here in JP — and John Brockman’s new collection of essays,
‘What to Think About Machines That Think: Today’s Leading Thinkers on the Age
of Machine Intelligence.’ ” A special favorite in fiction is “Katherine
Carlyle” by Rupert Thomson. “When folks see the blurbs from James Salter and
Phillip Pullman, they can rest assured they’re holding a treasure,” she added.
...

Read the full article →

[Big-Think-log]
Artificial Intelligence Isn't Nearly 'as Smart as 3-Year Olds.'
Jag Bhalla, Big Think [12.11.15]

Why should AI scare us? Let’s compare natural vs. artificial intelligence,
using Edge’s 2015 big question: What to think about machines that think?

... Alison Gopnik feels machines aren’t nearly “as smart as 3-year-olds.” While
AI sometimes outwits Garry Kasparov, it needs millions of pictures (labeled by
humans) to learn to recognize cats. Infants need a handful (amazing
pattern detectors, + see what babies know, butscientists often ignore). ...

Read the full article →

[siliconrepublic]
This Christmas, gift a book from the lighter side of sci-tech
Silicon Republic [12.9.15]

Christmas is coming, and the shopping list is getting fat. So we’re here to
give you a hand with at least the ideas stage.

Here at Siliconrepublic.com, we’ve spent the last few weeks creating lists of
books that the sci-tech lovers in your life will, well… love.

Our first foray into the world of the must-read saw us pointing you in the
right direction on books for those who just can’t get their fill of science
knowledge – a serious look at the world of science and technology, if you will.

With this latest list, we look at the other side of that coin. Plenty of
knowledge here, too, but with a slightly different flavour.

Compiled by John Brockman, publisher of website Edge.org, This Idea Must Die
 brings together some of the planet’s leading thinkers and asks them, "What
scientific idea is ready for retirement?"

Asking the question of 175 of the world’s leading scientists, artists and
philosophers, Brockman elicited answers from a huge range of people. … The most
famous book produced from the series is likely This Explains Everything, which
was published in 2012, while What To Think About Machines That Think has just
been published.

[This]

Read the full article →

[lanacion_1]
Superforecasting
Diego Golombek, La Nacion [12.7.15]

The implications of this research, the methods, and ideas are enormous: imagine
having the ability to help make political, economic, and educational decisions.
The interesting thing is that the supers are not geniuses, or experts in
quantum physics, or macroeconomics, they're common people—filmmakers,
mechanical or dance teachers,but they are especially vigilant and rational in
discerning and processing the available evidence. And how does one become a
superforecaster? Tetlock recently offered a course of 5 classes (available
whole in edge.org). In these class discussions, the tournaments, counterfactual
thinking ("what if?"), and what we have learned about human behavior with these
techniques are discussed. ...

Read the full article →

[boingboing_3]
What is reputation?
David Pescovitz, BoingBoing [11.12.15]

On the Web, reputation is a critical currency. But reputation is tricky. The
way it's measured changes from platform to platform, network to network. And
the way we evaluate the reputation of people, products, companies, information,
and even the reputation systems, is affected by our own biases. Big time.
Gloria Origgi literally wrote the book on reputation, titled La Reputation. A
researcher at the Centre Nationale de la Recherche Scientifique in Paris,
Origgi is a philosopher, cognitive scientist, novelist, and journalist. Over at
my friend John Brockman's essential site EDGE, Origgi tackles the big question
of "What is reputation?"

Read the full article →

[Loyolan]
Save the Date for the Week of 10/18
Amanda Lopez, Los Angeles Loyolan [10.19.15]

Wednesday, Oct. 21: The Loyolan is hosting its second annual "60 Second
Lectures" event, co-sponsored by the University Honors Program. Professors from
various schools at LMU will deliver lectures on ideas in their field that "must
die" in the span of one minute, focusing on the central theme of "This Idea
Must Die." "60 Second Lectures" will start at 7:15 p.m. in UHALL 1000.

[60seclectu]  [This]

Read the full article →

[Brain-Pickings-Logo_0]
What to Think About Machines That Think: Leading Thinkers on Artificial
Intelligence and What It Means to Be Human
Maria Popova, Brain Pickings [10.13.15]

When Ada Lovelace and Charles Babbage invented the world’s first computer,
their “Analytical Engine” became the evolutionary progenitor of a new class of
human extensions — machines that think. A generation later, Alan Turing picked
up where they left off and, in laying the foundations of artificial
intelligence with his Turing Test, famously posed the techno-philosophical
questionof whether a computer could ever enjoy strawberries and cream or compel
you to fall in love with it.

From its very outset, this new branch of human-machine evolution made it clear
that any answer to these questions would invariably alter how we answer the
most fundamental questions of what it means to be human.

That’s what Edge founder John Brockman explores in the 2015 edition of his
annual question, inviting 192 of today’s most prominent thinkers to tussle with
these core questions of artificial intelligence and its undergirding human
dilemmas. ...

What to Think About Machines That Think is an immeasurably stimulating read in
its entirety, exploring the intersection of science, philosophy, technology,
ethics, and psychology to unravel some of the most important questions worth
asking. ...

Read the full article →

[640_NYT]
Review: ‘Brief Candle in the Dark,’ by Richard Dawkins, Puts Intellect Over
Intimacy
Dwight Garner, New York Times [10.6.15]

In Richard Dawkins’s first memoir, An Appetite for Wonder (2013), he described
losing his virginity, at the somewhat advanced age of 22, to a cellist in
London.

His writing about this episode was typical of him. First he called upon
science. “It isn’t difficult for a biologist to explain why nervous systems
evolved in such a way as to make sexual congress one of the consistently
greatest experiences life has to offer,” he said. “But explaining it doesn’t
make it any less wonderful.”

Then he summoned literature and morality, and wrote: “I’ll say no more on the
subject, and will betray no confidences. It isn’t that kind of autobiography.”

Mr. Dawkins’s sequel to his memoir has arrived, and it isn’t that kind of
autobiography either. Brief Candle in the Dark: My Life in Science presents a
public life more than a private one.

This is autobiography as intellectual victory lap. What it lacks in intimacy it
mostly makes up for with wit and bounce and a sense that this deeply learned
man is running for mayor of our brains. ...

...Two threads stand out from the many. The first is his longing to bridge the
divide between science and literary culture. The second is the
author’s emergence, with his best-selling book The God Delusion (2006), as the
most famous atheist on Earth.

Mr. Dawkins laments that scientists in fiction, “from Dr. Frankenstein to Dr.
Strangelove,” are generally portrayed as “heartless eccentrics, gradgrinds,
psychopaths or worse.”

His favorite evenings are those he calls “third culture,” that is, scientists
sharing a bottle or two with word people. Living novelists who write well about
science, he suggests, include Mr. McEwan, A. S. Byatt, Philip Pullman, Barbara
Kingsolver, Martin Amis and William Boyd. …

[candle_cov]

 

Read the full article →

GET EDGE.ORG BY EMAIL

You can subscribe to Edge and receive e-mail versions of EdgeEditions as they
are published on the web. Fill out the form, below, with your name and e-mail
address and your subscription will be automatically processed.
Email address * [                         ]
Your name * [                         ]
Country * [                         ]
[subscribe]
NOTE: if you use a spam-filter that uses a challenge/response or authenticated
e-mail address system, you must include "editor@edge.org" on your list of
approved senders or you will not receive our e-mail.

unsubscribe

  • John Brockman, Editor and Publisher
  • Russell Weinberger, Associate Publisher
  • Nina Stegeman, Associate Editor

 

  • Contact Info:editor@edge.org
  • In the News
  • Get Edge.org by email

 
Edge.org is a nonprofit private operating foundation under Section 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code.
Copyright (C) 2016 By Edge Foundation, Inc All Rights Reserved.

 

