                                   [cdinfo]
                  Sacred Texts  Evil  Index  Previous  Next 
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                            Buy this Book on Kindle
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

       History of the Devil, by Paul Carus, [1900], at sacred-texts.com

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

p. 306

                               THE INQUISITION.

                              Heretics Outlawed.

THE saddest side of the Devil's history appears in the persecution of those who
were supposed to be adherents of the Devil; namely, sectarians, heretics, and
witches. The most ridiculous accusations were made and believed of the
Manichees, the Montanists, the Novatian Puritans or Cathari (καϑαροί), the
Albigenses, and other dissenters. They were said to worship the Devil by most
obscene ceremonies, and their intercourse with him was described most minutely
as indecent and outrageous. In times of a general belief in witchcraft and the
Devil's power, nobody was safe against the accusation of being in the service
of Satan. Thus the Stedingers, having effectually resisted the Bishop of Bremen
when he tried to take their tithes from them by force of arms, were vanquished
and cruelly slaughtered after having been denounced as Devil-worshippers. The
order of the Templars, the richest and most powerful and even the most orthodox
order of Christianity, was accused of the meanest and most bestial idolatry,
simply because an avaricious king of France was anxious to deprive them of
their

p. 307

wealth and valuable possessions; and innumerable private citizens, poor people
as a rule recklessly and rich people deliberately, were made in some way or
other victims of this most shameful superstition, sometimes to benefit
ecclesiasticism, sometimes to serve the interests of the powerful, sometimes
out of sheer ignorance, and sometimes even with the purest and sincerest
intentions of doing the right thing for the best of mankind, and with the pious
desire of obeying the word of the Lord, "Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live"
(Exodus xxii. 18).

The witch-prosecution mania was a general and a common disease of the age. On
the one hand, it cannot (as is often supposed) be attributed to the influence
of the Church alone, and it would, on the other hand, be a grave mistake to
absolve the ecclesiastical institutions of the fearful crimes of this
superstition; for the highest authorities of both Catholic and Protestant
Christianity not only upheld the idea of witch-prosecution, but enforced it in
the execution of the law in all its most terrible consequences.

It was natural that heretics should always be regarded as belonging to the same
category as witches and wizards, for they, too, were according to the logic of
ecclesiastical reasoning "worshippers of Satan." Deuteronomy commands that
prophets and dreamers of dreams, who by signs or wonders that come to pass
would persuade Israelites to obey other gods, "shall be put to death" (xiii.
5-11). We read:

"If thy brother, the son of thy mother, or thy son, or thy daughter, or the
wife of thy bosom, or thy friend, which is as thine

p. 308

own soul, entice thee secretly, saying, Let us go and serve other gods, which
thou hast not known, thou, nor thy fathers;

"Namely, of the gods of the people which are round about you, nigh unto thee,
or far off from thee, from the one end of the earth even unto the other end of
the earth;

"Thou shalt not consent unto him, nor hearken unto him neither shall thine eye
pity him, neither shalt thou spare, neither shalt thou conceal him:

"But thou shalt surely kill him; thine hand shall be first upon him to put him
to death, and afterwards the hand of all the people.

"And thou shalt stone him with stones, that he die; because he hath sought to
thrust thee away from the Lord thy God, which brought thee out of the land of
Egypt, from the house of bondage.

"And all Israel shall hear, and fear, and shall do no more any such wickedness
as this is among you."

Relying on this passage, St. Jerome (340-420 A. D.) did not hesitate to advise
the infliction of capital punishment upon heretics; and Leo the Great (Pope,
440-461 A. D.) takes the same view. 1

Priscillian, a bishop of Spain, a man of learning and pure morals, was the
first heretic who was put to torture and together with some of his adherents
decapitated at Treves in the year 385. The followers of Priscillian revered the
memory of their teacher as that of a martyr, and formed a sect which continued
to exist for a long time in spite of the excommunication of the Church. Pope
Leo the Great justified and praised the condemnation of Priscillian.

Under Pope Alexander III., the title "Inquisitor," in the sense of judge in
matters of faith, was used for the first time at the council of Tours (in
1163). The synod

p. 309

of Verona (in 1184) cursed all heretics, and ordered them, in case they
relapsed, to be handed over to the secular authorities for capital punishment.
Pope Innocent III. (1198-1216) for the sake of crushing the Albigenses gave
power to papal emissaries to sue the heretics, and enjoined all bishops on
penalty of deposition to assist in the discovery and prosecution of
unbelievers. Following in the footsteps of Gregory VII., he vindicated the
supremacy of the Church over the State; he humiliated Philip Augustus of
France, deposed Emperor Otto IV., compelled John of England to acknowledge the
feudal sovereignty of the Pope and pay tribute. He instigated the fourth
crusade (1202-1204) and exterminated the Albigenses. Under his papacy, at the
suggestion of Castilian Dominic and the Bishop of Toulouse, the new order of
Dominicans was instituted, which was destined to become the working force of
the Inquisition. Pope Gregory IX. pursued the traditional policy with great
vigor, establishing a regular inquisitorial office for Italy under the name of
the "Holy Office," in 1224.

Gregory's policy was codified in an instrument of forty-five articles by the
Council of Toulouse, in 1229, and thus the Inquisition became an established
Church-institution, the appointment and superintendence of which formed an
important prerogative of the Pope. It was not until this period that the Pope
became the absolute ruler of the Church, for now even bishops could be cited
before the papal tribunal of the Inquisition. Gregory IX. appointed (in 1232)
the Dominicans as papal inquisitors, who performed the terrible duties of their
office so faithfully that they truly earned the title of Domini canes,

p. 310

[paragraph continues] "the sleuth-hounds of the Lord," which originated in a
word-play on their name.

A famous fresco in the Santa Maria Novella at Florence entitled Domini canes,
painted by Simone Memmi, represents the inquisitorial idea under the allegory
of a pack of hounds chasing off the wolves from the sheepfold.

Gregory IX. (1227-1241) sent Conrad of Marburg to Germany and gave him
unlimited power of citing before his tribunal all people suspected of
witchcraft, commanding him to bring the guilty to the fagot. And this fiendish
man obeyed with joy his master, whom he revered as the Vicar of Christ on
earth. He encountered much opposition, for the people became rebellious, and
even the Archbishops of Cologne, Treves, and Mayence attempted to resist him.
But Conrad remained firm; his practices had the unequivocal sanction of his
Holiness the Pope, and he did not hesitate to begin proceedings even against
these three highest dignitaries of the Church in Germany. Wherever Conrad
appeared, the fagots were lit, and many innocent people became the victims of
his fanaticism. The Archbishop of Mayence, bent on stopping this fiend, wrote a
letter to the Pope, in which he said:

"Whoever fell into his hands had only the choice between a ready confession for
the sake of saving his life and a denial, whereupon he was speedily burnt.
Every false witness was accepted, but no just defence granted,--not even to
people of prominence. The person arraigned had to confess that he was a
heretic, that he had touched a toad, that he had kissed a pale man, or some
monster. Many Catholics suffered themselves to be burnt innocently rather than
confess to such vicious crimes, of which they knew they were not guilty. The
weak ones, in order to save their lives,

p. 311

 POPE URBAN V. PROCLAIMING THE BULL. <i>In Caena Domini</i>, 1362, CONDEMNING
                                   HERETICS.
                                 Click to view
POPE URBAN V. PROCLAIMING THE BULL. In Caena Domini, 1362, CONDEMNING HERETICS.

p. 312

lied about themselves and other people, especially about such prominent ones
whose names were suggested to them by Conrad. Thus brothers accused their
brothers, wives their husbands, servants their masters. Many gave money to the
clergy for good advice as to how to protect themselves, and the greatest
confusion originated." (Alberici Monachi chron. ad. a. 1233.) 1

The Archbishop's letter failed to impress his Holiness and did not in the least
change the course of things.

     THE BANNER OF THE SPANISH INQUISITION.             THE BANNER OF THE INQUISITION OF GOA.
                  Click to view                                     Click to view
     THE BANNER OF THE SPANISH INQUISITION.             THE BANNER OF THE INQUISITION OF GOA.
                                                  
                                                                                                  2

On the contrary, Rome pursued more vigorously than ever its old policy, which
was at last definitely formulated by Pope Urban V. in his bull "In caena Domini
," proclaimed in 1362, which sounded the slogan against all who ventured to
dissent from Rome, and solemnly condemned heresy in strong and unequivocal
terms.

p. 313

Meanwhile the success of the Inquisition had been greatly imperilled by the
opposition which Conrad of Marburg encountered in Germany. When the
Inquisitor-General indicted Count Henry of Sayn for heresy, he wag cited before
the German Diet that was held in Mayence. The Diet was not inclined to respect
Conrad's authority and passed a vote of censure. Bent on vengeance for the

           THE CHAMBER OF THE INQUISITION. LISTENING TO AN INFORMER.
                                 Click to view
           THE CHAMBER OF THE INQUISITION. LISTENING TO AN INFORMER.

insult received, the Inquisitor left for Paderborn, but before he could do
further mischief he was overtaken by several noblemen on the 30th of July,
1233, near Marburg, on the Lahn, and slain. 1 Thus he fell a martyr

p. 314

to his bloody profession. The Germans breathed more freely, but Gregory IX.
canonised him as a saint and martyr, and ordered that a chapel be built on the
spot on which he was killed.

While the establishment of the Holy Office in Germany met with serious
difficulties, the inquisitors were

              VARIOUS MANNERS OF CROSS-EXAMINING THE DEFENDANTS.
                                 Click to view
              VARIOUS MANNERS OF CROSS-EXAMINING THE DEFENDANTS.

welcomed in France by Louis the Pious, Philip the Fair, and Charles IV.

The Inquisitor Hugo de Beniols had a number of prominent people burned alive at
Toulouse, in 1275, among them Ange`le, Lady of Labarthe, a woman of

p. 315

sixty-five years accused of sexual intercourse with Satan. It is stated that
she had borne a monster with a wolf's head and a serpent's tail, whose sole
food consisted of babies. Under the rule of Charles IV. the ill-famed Bastile
was built, because the prisons no longer sufficed to hold the indicted
heretics.

The reign of Charles VI. is distinguished by a temporary

  A MAN AND A WOMAN CONVICTED OF HERESY WHO HAVE PLEADED GUILTY BEFORE BEING
                              CONDEMNED TO DEATH.
                                 Click to view
  A MAN AND A WOMAN CONVICTED OF HERESY WHO HAVE PLEADED GUILTY BEFORE BEING
                              CONDEMNED TO DEATH.

lull in the witchcraft-prosecution in France, mainly due to the weakness of the
papacy arising from the great schism between Rome and Avignon. The curses which
the two popes mutually visited on their adherents appeared to change into
blessings. The Synod of Langres (1404) speaks of soothsayers as impostors, and
holds out to those who are in the power of Satan the hope of salvation through
repentance and penance. The

p. 316

tribunal of Toulouse (1606) enacted no other punishments upon thirteen persons
than fines, fasts, pilgrimages, and almsgiving, while the Inquisitor was tried
and convicted for the misappropriation of confiscated property. King Charles
VI. ordered that he be deprived of his salary. 1

In Spain the Inquisition prospered best. The Directorium

                       HERETICS CONDEMNED TO BE BURNED.
                                 Click to view
                       HERETICS CONDEMNED TO BE BURNED.

inqusitorum of N. Eymerich (Rome 1587), the inquisitor-general for Castile,
affords us a complete insight into the proceedings of the Holy Office, its
spy-system, its modes of cross-examination and torture, and its spoils.
Torquemada and Ximenes were the most determined and unrelenting successors of
Eymerich. 2 The

p. 317

wealthiest, the most powerful, the most learned, were threatened alike, and
even Archbishop Carranza, the primate of the Church of Spain, could not escape
the prosecution of the inquisitors.

In the beginning of the fifteenth century, Johannes Nider, a German and a
Dominican monk, published a book on Witches and Their Deceptions. 1 At the same

   A MAN AND A WOMAN CONDEMNED TO BE BURNED BUT PARDONED ON ACCOUNT OF THEIR
                                  CONFESSION.
                                 Click to view
   A MAN AND A WOMAN CONDEMNED TO BE BURNED BUT PARDONED ON ACCOUNT OF THEIR
                                  CONFESSION.

time Pope Eugene IV. (1431-1447) encouraged the inquisitors in a circular
letter to proceed with severity, "summarily, without ado, and without any
judiciary form." 2

p. 318

The Prior of St. Germain, William von Edelin, who had preached against the
reality of witchcraft, had to beg pardon publicly in the Episcopal Chapel at
Evreux on September 12, 1453, and to confess that he himself had worshipped
Satan, had renounced his faith in the cross, and preached that witchcraft was
an illusion at the especial command of the Devil for the propagation of the
Satanic

           THE INQUISITION IN SESSION ON THE MARKET SQUARE AT MADRID
                                 Click to view
           THE INQUISITION IN SESSION ON THE MARKET SQUARE AT MADRID

 A. King and Queen.
 B. Grand Inquisitor.
 C. Counsellors.
 D. Nobility.
 F. The defendants and their families.
 F. Two cages in which the criminals were placed when their sentence was read.
 G. Altar for saying mass.
 H. H. Escutcheon of the Inquisition.
 I. The preacher's pulpit.
 K. K. Stands for those who read the sentences.
 L. Effigies of those who died in prison.

dominion. 1 Edelin remained incarcerated and was soon released from further
persecution by death.

In 1458 J. Nicolaus Jaquerius appeared in the field with another publication
called the heretics' scourge or

p. 319

                     PROCESSION OF THE INQUISITION OF GOA.
                                 Click to view
                     PROCESSION OF THE INQUISITION OF GOA.

    A. The Banner.
    B. Dominican friars.
    C. Criminals condemned to be burned alive
    D. Criminals who, having pleaded guilty, were pardoned.
    E. Crucifix turning its back upon those that we condemned to be burned.
    F. Criminals condemned to be burned.
    G. Effigies of those who escape the fagots by having died in prison.
    H. Grand Inquisitor.

                  THE LAST SERMON PREACHED TO THE CONDEMNED.
                                 Click to view
                  THE LAST SERMON PREACHED TO THE CONDEMNED.

p. 320

[paragraph continues] Flagellum heriticorum fascinariorum 1 (Frankfort, 1581)
in which Edelin's case is reported 2 as one argument among many others for the
reality of witchcraft. And now at last all opposition to the practices of
witch-prosecutors were put down.

The Inquisitor Pierre le Broussart, member of the Dominican order, cited during
the absence of the Bishop

                      THE HERETICS’ DEATH ON THE FAGOTS.
                                 Click to view
                      THE HERETICS’ DEATH ON THE FAGOTS.

of Arras a number of persons before his tribunal and made them confess on the
rack that they had been with the Waldenses; he promised to spare their lives if
they agreed publicly to confess all the abominable crimes of which the
Waldenses had been accused. At a public

p. 321

meeting the accused persons appeared on a scaffold; they wore caps exhibiting
pictures of Devil-worship. The various ceremonies of obscene demonolatry were
read to them, and they were asked whether they were guilty. All the accused
affirmed their guilt, whereupon, in utter neglect of previous promises, they
were sentenced and turned over to the secular authorities to be burned alive.
In vain did they now shout that they had been cheated, that they knew nothing
of the crimes of which they had been accused, and that they had only confessed
because they had been promised to be let off with a nominal punishment.
Broussart was determined to set an example, and had them executed in 1560 in
spite of the protestations of their innocence.

                               The Witch-Hammer.

Witch-prosecutions received a new impulse in the year 1484 through . the bull
of Pope Innocent VIII., beginning with the words Summis desiderantes affectibus
. The inquisitors of Germany, Heinrich Institoris (whose German name was
Kra:mer) and Jacob Sprenger, complained of having met with resistance while
attending to their duties, and the Pope afforded them the desired assistance
for the sake of strengthening the Catholic faith 1

p. 322

and of preventing the horrible crimes and excesses of witchcraft. 1

The bull of Pope Innocent VIII. had reference to Germany only; but other popes,
Alexander VI., Julius II., Leo X., and Hadrian IV., issued bulls written in the
same spirit, instigating the zeal of the inquisitors to do their best for the
purification of the faith and the supression of witchcraft.

The heinous bull of Pope Innocent VIII. was the immediate cause of the writing
of the Malleus Maleficarum, or Witch-Hammer, which received the sanction of the
Pope, and a patent from Emperor Maximilian. With the Witch-Hammer in hand,
Sprenger and Institoris appeared in 1487 before the theological faculty of
Cologne and demanded their approbation, which was given with reluctance and
after long hesitation. The original form of the document is very guarded and
approves of the principles of punishing witchcraft only "in so far as they do
not contradict the sacred canons." This did not appear sufficient and the
inquisitors insisted upon a more decisive verdict. There are four further
articles which contain an unequivocal request to the secular authorities to
assist the inquisition in the interest of the Catholic faith.

In addition the inquisitors secured a notary's certificate concerning the
Emperor's patent and the approbation

p. 323

of the theological faculty; but it is noteworthy that the Emperor's patent is
not literally reproduced; nor has it (according to Soldan's 1 opinion) ever
been published. The notary declares merely that the Emperor promises to protect
the papal bull and to assist both inquisitors.

Such is the first introduction of the Witch-Hammer in Germany, and the book was
at once recognised by zealots as the main source of information on witchcraft.
Damhouder, the great criminalist of the sixteenth century, esteemed its
authority as almost equal to the law; 2 and its baneful influence extends over
a period of three centuries.

The Malleus Maleficarum, or Witch-Hammer, is one of the most famous and
infamous works ever written. Its name indicated that it was intended to crush
witchcraft. No author is mentioned but Sprenger's spirit is recognised in both
its preface (the Apologia) and the various chapters of the book.' Its style is
poor, its ideas are foolish, its intentions are villainous, and the advice
given to the inquisitors concerning their procedure betrays a diabolical
perfidiousness. The book contains the most confounded nonsense, often
self-contradictory, and is throughout irrational and superstitious. The
Witch-Hammer advises beginning the trial with the question "whether or not the
person on trial believes in witchcraft." The statement is added: "Mind that
witches generally deny the question." If the culprit denies, the inquisitor
continues: "Well, then, whenever witches are

p. 324

burnt, they are innocently condemned. "A denial of witchcraft sealed the doom
of the accused at once, for the Witch-Hammer declares: "The greatest heresy is
not to believe in witchcraft" (haeresis est maxima opera maleficarum non
credere). However, if the accused affirmed the question, the tortures made him
confess all that he knew about it and whether or not he had learned and
practised the black art. To plead ignorance would not avail, for the very
refusal of a confession was counted a crime under the name maleficium
taciturnitatus. There was no escape, and the best course for the victim on the
rack was to confess all at once without a relapse into denials, for that at
least abbreviated the procedure and ended the tragedy without its incidental
terrors. As a rule the prisoners of the inquisition ask for death as a boon and
wherever possible commit suicide; for torture made of every one a hopeless
cripple unfit for either work or enjoyment of life, even though he might be
released. Acquittals, however, were rare and the Witch-Hammer advises the
inquisitors never to acquit, but only temporarily to stop proceedings. A nolle
pros was recommended as the safer way. The culprit should be handed over to the
secular authorities for capital punishment, especially if the sentence of being
burned alive was mitigated to decapitation, 1 a penalty which the Church
avoided inflicting; for "the Church thirsts not for blood" (ecclesia non sitit
sanguinem). A confessor and even the judge himself is advised to speak in
private with the prisoner

p. 325

and upon the promise of pardon and mercy to extort a confession. The
Witch-Hammer suggests that the judge may say: "'If you confess, I shall not
condemn you to death,' for he may at any time call in another judge to take his
place, who is at liberty to pronounce the sentence."

The victims of the Inquisition were practically without any assistance, for
witchcraft was regarded as an exceptional crime (crimen atrocissimum and crimen
exceptum) for which the usual rules of procedure were not binding. It belonged
before the secular and also the ecclesiastical tribunal (crimen fori mixti).
The culprit must be dealt with according to the maxim of Pope Boniface VIII.
(1294-1303), "simply and squarely, without the noise and form of lawyers and
judges." 1

To us who live in an age of calmer thought and more exact investigation, it is
difficult to understand how the Witch-Hammer could ever have been believed.

                                 The Torture.

Witch-prosecution appears to us as rascality pure and simple, but it was not.
It was the result of a firm and deep-seated religious conviction, as may be
learned from the Malleus Maleficarum, a work of John Trithemius, Abbot of the
Monastery of Spongheim (1442-1516), who at the request of Joachim, Markgrave of
Brandenburg, investigated the subject, and after years of conscientious study
presented to the world his views in a

p. 326

book of four volumes, which was completed October 16, in the year 1508, when
the pious abbot had reached the mature age of sixty-six years.

Trithemius distinguishes four classes of wizards and witches: (1) Those who
hurt and kill others through poison and other natural means. (2) Those who
injure others by the art of magic formulas. (3) Those who converse with the
Devil personally. (4) Those who have actually concluded a contract with the
Devil and have thus procured his assistance for evil designs. Trithemius
believes that there is no other way of protecting the commonwealth against the
obnoxious influence of these malefactors than by extirpating them, but best by
burning them alive. He says:

"It is to be lamented that the number of witches in all countries is very
great, for indeed there is not a village, be it ever so small, which does not
harbor at least one of the third and of the fourth class. But how rare are the
judges who punish these crimes against God and nature."

And in another passage the abbot utters the complaint:

"Men and animals die through the infamy of these women, and none considers that
it is due to the malignity of witchcraft. There are many who suffer from
serious diseases and do not even know that they are bewitched."

The great dangers of witchcraft seemed to demand extraordinary means for
combating its evils; and thus the torture, which had formerly been applied only
in exceptional and special cases, began to be developed in a most formidable
and barbaric way.

Suspected persons were subjected to fire and water

p. 327

ordeals, but the latter test was preferred; and this is the reason, as we read
in Ko:nig's work on the subject:

                               THE WATER ORDEAL.
                                 Click to view
                               THE WATER ORDEAL.

"A case is known in which the accused person successfully passed through the
fire ordeal. It happened immediately before the appearance of the Witch-Hammer.
In the archives of Donau-Eschingen there is a document according to which a
certain Anna Henne from Ro:thenbach, in the Black Forest, in 1485, cleared
herself of the suspicion of witchcraft by carrying a hot iron."

Concerning the water ordeal the same author says:

"The water ordeal is very old. Ludwig, the Pious, abolished it, but Hinkmar of
Rheims defended its practice. In the times of Bernhard of Clairvaux, it was
used against the Manichees. Pope Innocent III.

p. 328

again abolished it in the Lateran Council, 1215. The famous law book, The Saxon
Mirror, written by Eike von Repkow, in the year 1230, provides that if two men
lay claim to the same thing and the neighbors can bear no witness, the
water-ordeal shall decide."

The Mirror of the Swabians, also of the thirteenth century, contains the same
proposition. In the sixteenth century the practice was almost universally
established. As to the underlying idea, Ko:nig says:

"There are opposite views applied to the ordeal of water. According to the one,
the question was how long the accused could remain under water; according to
the other the innocence of the accused was proved by sinking, the guilt by
swimming. In both cases, the view prevailed that witches possessed a specific
levity, and the rule was adopted that 'The water refused to receive in its
depths those who had shaken off the baptismal water through a renunciation of
their faith.'" (Ausgeb. d. Menschenwahns, pp. 100 ff.)

Who can contemplate without indignation and holy wrath the instruments of
torture used by inquisitors in their infamous vocation? There are thumbscrews,
there are blacksmith's tongs and pincers to tear out the fingernails or to be
used red-hot for pinching; there is the rack, Spanish boots, collars, chains,
etc., there are boards and rollers covered with sharp spikes; there is the
"Scavenger' s Daughter," also the "Iron Virgin," a hollow instrument the size
and figure of a woman, with knives inside which are so arranged that, when
closing, the victim would be lacerated in its deadly embrace.

Incredible ingenuity was displayed in the invention of these instruments of
torture; and one of the executioner's swords, which still hangs in the
Torturers' Vault at Nuremberg on the left side of the entrance, exhibits

p. 329

 THE TORTURE ROOM AT NUREMBERG. (After C. Rau. Reproduced from B. E. Ko:nig.)
                                 Click to view
 THE TORTURE ROOM AT NUREMBERG. (After C. Rau. Reproduced from B. E. Ko:nig.)

p. 330

in bad Latin the blasphemous inscription, "Solo Deo Gloria!" 1

The hangmen took pride in their profession and regarded themselves as disgraced
if they could not make their victims confess whatever the inquisitors wanted.
Their usual threat, when a heretic, a wizard, or a witch was handed over to
them, was: "You will be tortured until you are so thin that the sun will shine
through you." The instruments look horrible enough, but the practice was more
horrible than the wildest imagination can depict.

Before the torture began, the accused were forced to drink the witch-broth, a
disgusting concoction mixed with the ashes of burnt witches, and supposed to
protect the torturers against the evil influence of witchcraft. The filth 2 of
the dungeons was a very effective means of making the prisoner despondent and
preparing him for any confession upon which he could be condemned. He was
frequently secured by iron manacles fixed in the wall or placed under heavy
timbers which prevented the free use of his limbs, rendering him a helpless
prey to rats, mice, and vermin of all sorts.

Consider only the fiendish details of the torture applied to a woman in the
year 1631 on the first day of her trial:  3

"(1) The hangman binds the woman, who was pregnant, and places her on the rack.
Then he racked her till her heart would fain

p. 331

break, but had no compassion. (2) When she did not confess, the torture was
repeated, the hangman tied her hands, cut off her hair, poured brandy over her
head and burned it. (3) He placed sulphur in her armpits and burned it. (4) Her
hands were tied behind her, and she was hauled up to the ceiling and suddenly
dropped down. (5) This hauling up and dropping down was repeated for some
hours, until the hangman and his helpers went to dinner. (6) When they
returned, the master-hangman tied her feet and hands upon her back; brandy was
poured on her back and burned. (8) Then heavy weights were placed on her back
and she was pulled up. (9) After this she was again stretched on the rack. (10)
A spiked board is placed on her back, and she is again hauled up to the
ceiling. (11) The master again ties her feet and hangs on them a block of fifty
pounds, which makes her think that her heart will burst. (12) This proved
insufficient; therefore the master unties her feet and fixes her legs in a
vise, tightening the jaws until the blood oozes out at the toes. (13) Nor was
this sufficient; therefore she was stretched and pinched again in various ways.
(14) Now the hangman of Dreissigacker began the third grade of torture. When he
placed her on the bench and put the I shirt' on her, he said: 'I do not take
you for one, two, three, not for eight days, nor for a few weeks, but for half
a year or a year, for your whole life, until you confess: and if you will not
confess, I shall torture you to death, and you shall be burned after all. (15)
The hangman's son-in-law hauled her up to the ceiling by her hands. (16) The
hangman of Dreissigacker whipped her with a horsewhip. (17) She was placed in a
vise where she remained for six hours. (18) After that she was again
mercilessly horsewhipped. This was all that was done on the first day."

This is not barbarous, this is not bestial, it is satanic. And such deeds could
be done in the name of God, for the sake of the religion of Jesus, and by the
command of the highest authorities of the Christian Church!

p. 332

From the great number of prosecutions for witchcraft we select one instance
only, which, however, is neither typical nor extraordinary in its horrors.

We read in Konig's popular exposition of human superstitions, 1 p. 240:

"There was a farmer by the name of Veit, living in a village of Southern
Bohemia. He was famous for his wit and unusual humor. At the same time he was
physically strong, and whenever there was a quarrel at the inn he came off
victor. The rumor spread that he was inviolable, as sometimes hunters are
supposed to be bullet-proof, and Veit never denied it. By and by he was
regarded as a wizard, and as his cattle prospered best and his fields yielded
the richest crops, he was soon supposed to be in league with the Evil One. Now
it happened that the village was troubled with mice, and Veit was suspected of
having caused the plague. When questioned about it, he granted in a moment of
humor that he had sent the mice but would soon drive them away again, and he
promised to prove at the next church-fair that he could actually make mice.
When the day appointed came, the inn was overcrowded, and farmer Veit appeared
with a big bag under his arm, into which he requested the company to throw
twenty pebbles. They did so without noticing that the bag was double. And while
one part was empty the other contained twenty mice. When the pebbles were put
in the bag, Veit murmured a magic formula and let the mice loose in the
presence of his frightened audience.

"This performance, however, had unexpected and tragic results. The people were
convinced that it was the work of hell, and Veit escaped with difficulty from
the inn. Veit was arrested the next night and delivered to the criminal court.
A mole on his body was thought to be a stigma of the Devil, and all the
witnesses agreed that he was a genuine wizard. His case was thoroughly
investigated, and even the University of Prague was consulted; the verdict
signed by the Rector Magnificus with his own hand was

p. 333

against him, and Veit, who stoutly maintained his innocence, had to endure all
the tortures of the inquisition. At last he was burned alive and the ashes of
his body were thrown to the winds. We read in the records of the law-suit that
Veit mounted the stake 'without showing repentance or doing penance.' And when
chains were put on his neck, around his body, and around his feet, he cried
with a loud voice, 'My God, I die innocently.' judges, professors, physicians,
and theologians agreed unanimously in the conviction of this innocent man."

Volumes might be filled with accounts of the many thousand various instances of
witch-prosecutions, and every single case is so soul-harrowing that we prefer
to pass them by in silence. The accusations are almost always very
circumstantial and definite, mostly of brutal indecency and ridiculously
impossible.

                            The Angel of Augsburg.

Witch-prosecution was a convenient weapon in the bands of unscrupulous men for
accomplishing crooked ends or satisfying some private vengeance. One of the
most tragic and pathetic cases is the sad death of Agnes Bernauer, a beautiful
woman, the daughter of a barber and the sweetheart of Albrecht, Duke of
Bavaria.

Agnes was born about 1410 in Biberach, and it appears that she was a mere
servant girl in Augsburg at the time Duke Albrecht of Wu:rtemberg, the son of
Duke Ernest, made her acquaintance. The story that Agnes was of patrician birth
and that the lovers met at the great tournament is mere legend, but this much
is sure that Agnes was extraordinarily beautiful, with golden hair, and
delicate, noble features. Even her enemies could not help praising the nobility
of her appearance. We

p. 334

know little or nothing about the relations between Duke Albrecht and Agnes,
except that he courted her and took her with him to his residence in the County
Vohnburg.

Duke Ernest, Albrecht's father, knew about Agnes's presence at Vohnburg but he
cared little, until he became anxious about having a legal heir to his duchy.
Then he requested his soil to marry the daughter of Duke Erik of Brunswick, but
Albrecht refused on account of the love he bore to Agnes.

When persuasion appeared to be without avail, Duke Ernest thought of other
means to separate his son from the lowly-born maiden. At a public tournament,
he ordered the judges to refuse admittance to Albrecht on the ground that for
the sake of a concubine he neglected his filial duties. Albrecht was greatly
exasperated and as soon as he returned to Vohnburg he recognised Agnes as his
wife. With the consent of his uncle, Duke William, he moved to the castle
Straubing, which he donated to her and surrounding her with a ducal court,
called her henceforth Duchess Agnes.

The poor woman did not enjoy the splendor of the court. She feared the wrath of
the old Duke, and built, in a melancholy presentiment of her sad fate, her own
burial chapel, in the monastery of the Carmelites at Straubing. Her happiness
was of short duration.

In Albrecht's absence, Duke Ernest seized Agnes, had her imprisoned and
denounced her as a witch. Her condemnation had been decided upon before the
trial began, and the verdict pronounced her guilty of having bewitched Duke
Albrecht and thus committed a criminal offence against Duke Ernest. The
judgment ordered her

p. 335

to be drowned in the river, and Duke Ernest signed the verdict.

The hangmen carried the young woman to the bridge at Straubing and thrust her,
in the presence of a multitude

 AGNES BERNAUER DROWNED AS A WITCH AT THE REQUEST OF ERNEST, DUKE OF BAVARIA.
 <br> Shows how the unscrupulous availed themselves of the extraordinary power
  of witch tribunals. (Woodcut by G. Dietrich. Reproduced from B. E. Ko:nig.)
                                 Click to view
 AGNES BERNAUER DROWNED AS A WITCH AT THE REQUEST OF ERNEST, DUKE OF BAVARIA.
  Shows how the unscrupulous availed themselves of the extraordinary power of
   witch tribunals. (Woodcut by G. Dietrich. Reproduced from B. E. Ko:nig.)

of spectators, into the water. But the current drifted her ashore and she held
up her white arms appealing to

p. 336

the people for help. The people were moved and she might have been saved, had
not one of the hangmen, fearing the wrath of the old duke, seized a pole and
catching her long golden hair held her under water until she expired. This
happened in the year 1435.

She was buried in St. Peter's cemetery of Straubing.

When the young Duke on his return was informed of the terrible death of his
beloved Agnes he swore vengeance, and in alliance with his cousin Duke Ludwig
of Bavaria-Ingolstadt, began to wage a vigorous war against his own father.
Through the mediation of the Emperor, however, he was reconciled with his
father at the council of Basel.

Duke Ernest built a chapel over the grave of his innocent victim and had an
annual mass read over her for the welfare of her soul. Duke Albrecht thereupon
agreed to marry Anna, Princess of Brunswick, by whom he had ten children,
although it cannot be said that his married life was a happy one.

In 1447 Duke Albrecht had the body of Agnes transferred to the chapel which she
had built for herself in the Carmelite monastery; and he had the resting-place
of her remains adorned with a beautiful marble image of her in full figure with
the simple inscription:

                 "Obiit Agnes Bernauerin. Requiescat in pace."

Poets who have immortalised her name, 1 and the

p. 337

people of Bavaria among whom her memory is still cherished, call her "the angel
of Augsburg."

                               *      ^*      *

One of the most comical witch-prosecutions took place in 1474 against a
diabolical rooster who had been so presumptuous as to lay an egg. The poor
creature was solemnly tried, whereupon he was condemned to die at the stake and
publicly burned by order of the authorities of the good city of Basel.

We abstain from entering further into the details of the prosecution of
witches, which gradually developed into a systematic business involving great
emoluments to judges, torturers, hangmen, inquisitors, denouncers, witnesses,
and all persons connected with the process. It is a doleful work to go over the
mere statistics of the autos-da-fe', and every single story of a trial for
witchcraft cannot but rouse our deepest indignation; and even now the belief in
witchcraft is not yet extinct among the so-called civilised races of mankind.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

                                   Footnotes

308:1 See Epist. xv., ad Turribium.

312:1 Roskoff, Geschichte des Teufels, II., pp. 215-216.

312:2 The illustrations on pages 312-320 are reproduced from Picart.

313:1 See Konrad von Marburg, by Henke (Marburg, 1861), and another work of the
same title by Beck (Breslau, 1861).

Conrad was the father confessor of Elizabeth, the widow of the Landgrave of
Thuringia. The poor woman submitted to most indecent corporal punishments, and
was sainted as a reward. If the same events happened to-day, both the
Landgravine p. 314 and her father confessor would probably have been
transferred from the Wartburg to an insane asylum. It is scarcely credible, but
nevertheless true, that a, book appeared in defense of Conrad as an inquisitor
and of his fiendish deeds by Kaltner under the title Konrad von Marburg und die
Inquisition in Deutschland. Prague, 1882.

316:1 Lamothe-Langon, III., p. 299, and Soldan, p. 193.

316:2 F. Hoffmann, Geschichte der Inquisition, Bonn, 1878. Llorente, Geschichte
der spanischen Inquisition. German, from the Spanish.

317:1 Fr. Joannes Nider, Suevi ordin. praedicat. s. theolog. profess. et
hereticae pestis inquisitoris, liber insignis de maleficiis et eorum
deceptionibus.

317:2 "Summarie simpliciter et de plano, ac sine strepitu et figura
judicii."--Pope Eugene in his circular letter to the Inquisitors of 1437.

318:1 See Raynald ad. ann. 1451.

320:1 The book is frequently appended to the Malleus Maleficarum.

320:2 f Chapter IV. contains the abjuration formula.

321:1 ". . . . ut fides catholica nostris potissime temporibus ubique augeatur
et floreat, ac omnis heretica pravitas de finibus fidelium procul pellatur. . .
. Sane nuper ad nostrum non sine ingenti molestia pervenit auditum quod . . . .
complures utriusque sexus personae . . . . cum daemonibus incubis et succubis
abuti, ac suis incantationibus . . . . mulierum partus, animatium fœtus, terrae
fruges .... periri, suffocari et extingui facere . . . ." (See Soldan,
Hexenprocesse, p. 222. Roskoff, I., pp. 226-292.)

322:1 Giovanno Ballista Cibo, when elected pope in 1484, chose the name
Innocent, probably in commemoration of Innocent VII. The people of his time,
thinking that he did not deserve the name, called him Nocens. He had seven
natural children, perhaps more. A humorous distich castigates him as follows:

"Octo Nocens pueros genuit, totidenique puellas.
Hunc merito poterit dicere Roma patrem."

323:1 Hexenprocesse, p. 222.

323:2 "Ita recepta est in hoc scribendi genere eorum authoritas ut pro lege
apud omnes habeatur."--Damhouder's Praxis rerum criminalium.

324:1 "Saecularem curiam affectuose deprecamur quatenus citra sanguinis
effusionem et mortis periculum suam sententiam moderatur," was the usual clause
when the inquisition handed their victims over to the secular authorities.

325:1 "Simpliciter et de plano, absque advocatorum et judiciorum strepitu et
figura,"--a phrase, which, as we saw, was almost literally repeated by Pope
Eugenius IV.

330:1 It ought to be Soli Deo Gloria.

330:2 Carceris squalores is the expression used by the author of the
Witch-Hammer.

330:3 Translated from Ko:nig, Ausgeburten des Menschenwahns, p. 130 See also
Soldan, Hexenprocesse, pp. 269-270.

332:1 Ausgeburten des Menschenwahns, ein Volksbuch, Rudolstadt.

336:1 Folksong on Agnes die Pernawerin. Count To:rring (1780), Bo:ttger (1846),
Melchior Meyr (1862), Friedrich Hebbel (1855), Otto Ludwig (a posthumous
fragmentary design of a drama begun in 1852). Ko:nig, Ausgeburten des
Menschenwahns recapitulates the story as the legend has it. For a critical
review and an exposition of the historical facts see Dr. Christian Meyer's
article on Agnes Bernauer in Die Gartenlaube, 1873, p. 454.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       Next: The Age of the Reformation
