*

Awkward Moments Children's Bible

  • Home
  • The Books
  • The Author
  • Buy Signed Copies!

Navigation Menu
Home >> In The News >> Pastors On The Prowl – A Wake-Up Call For Christian
Families

Pastors On The Prowl – A Wake-Up Call For Christian Families

Pastors On The Prowl – A Wake-Up Call For Christian Families

Posted by Horus G. on Jun 1, 2015 in In The News, Rants from Horus | 17
comments

What do these fifty pastors have in common? They were all considered to be “men
of God” by their congregations right until the moment police arrived and they
made the local news in the month of May for horrific crimes against children –
most of whom were members of their own churches. Many of the crimes took place
on church property with several victims over the course of many years.

    OBLIGATORY DISCLAIMER: This post is not about making generalizations in
    order to shame an entire faith, but to raise awareness in an effort to
    protect children. However, this is a very sensitive subject that brings out
    strong emotions for many reasons. So, in an attempt to avoid the expected
    dismissive denial and distancing, I will begin by conceding all of the
    following – once; No, of course not all pastors are predators. Yes, a
    couple of these crimes were against handicapped adults, not kids. Yes,
    predators can be found in any population, but I think most would agree that
    pastors should be held to a much higher standard. And, finally, yes –
    innocent until proven guilty, etc…

pastors_verticalLast May two fans messaged me about local pastors in their area
being arrested for sex crimes. They were surprised the stories weren’t making
national headlines at the same time the Pope was speaking so strongly against
pedophile priests. Given my own experiences in church leadership over the
years, I wasn’t surprised at all. However, being aware of my own assumptions
and the possibility of succumbing to confirmation bias, I took a few minutes to
do a quick search on Google News. Sadly, I found more than enough evidence to
confirm my gut instinct. As a result, I put together a post about 25 Protestant
pastors who made the news that month for sex crimes against children. Last week
the topic came up again thanks to the Josh Duggar situation, so I took a little
time to put together this new list for May 2015 (based only on the few local
new stories that make their way into Google News). The results were even more
startling than before, and I’d like to share my thoughts on a situation I’m
afraid will only get much worse before it has any hope of getting better.

In short, it seems that Protestants have an even larger problem than Catholics
with predatory pastors in their flocks and nobody is talking about it.

melissa

(From last year’s post.)

Why? Because hardly anybody knows that it’s a problem to begin with.The reasons
for this naivety are both complex and obvious at the same time:

No National Coverage: With one exception, all of the stories below made only
the local news without any national media attention. While this may give local
viewers an uncomfortable feeling of, “I can’t believe this seemingly rare thing
happened in our town,” they would have no idea that it also happened twice that
month in the next county or state. The truth of the matter is, this is a
national problem (international, actually), with cases occurring equally from
the conservative Bible Belt, to the liberal Northwest, to the urban Northeast.
Just because the reported cases only make the local news doesn’t mean that it’s
only a local problem.

No Single Enemy: When the Catholic sex scandals broke out, it was easy for
everyone to point to a single organization as the root of all evil. There was a
single outlet of information for the media to focus on, and one branch of
Christianity for Protestants to demonize and distance themselves from. “Thank
God that would never happen in our church,” I would hear my friends say.
Unfortunately, as you scroll through the list below, you’ll see that the
problem is found in every sort of denomination and church imaginable. As a
result, it instills the false sense of security, “Oh, that’s a problem in that
denomination, not ours.” I think it is worth noting that among the thousands of
Protestant denominations, there are many more Protestant pastors than Catholic
priests in our country today.

It seemed so easy for many Protestant Christians to generalize and point
fingers at “those filthy celibate pedophile Catholic priests,” – making it
about “them” not “us.” But what about the prevalence of predatory pastors
spread across different denominations all over the country? Where do people
point the finger now? Suddenly, “their” problem is “our” problem and the most
natural response is denial. (But, what good does this do?)

Not Good For Business: Local news agencies can get away with sharing the
seemingly rare local story of a pastor gone astray and are often thanked by the
community for doing so. But, can you imagine if NBC Nightly News had a daily
Predator Pastors segment?  In an era of escalating cries of persecution of
Christians, it’s not hard to imagine the religious majority taking each story
as a “vicious attack” on their faith and forming angry boycotts aimed at the
networks and their advertisers. No advertisers, no networks. (Don’t believe me?
Read the comment threads on the very sparse stories that are critical of
Christianity on major news sites. Then, imagine if every single one of these
stories below were covered by the same national news organization.) Heck, even
I am uncomfortable posting more than one of these stories every couple of weeks
out of fear of being labeled as a “hateful bigot who has nothing better to do
than attack Christianity.” Nobody wants to see and hear these stories on a
regular basis, but that doesn’t mean there isn’t a problem.

jehovah_document

Official Systematic Cover-Ups

Secrecy and Cover-Ups: Churches have a lot to lose when news leaks of any
scandal. Unlike the monstrous wealth and organizational power of the Catholic
church, the vast majority of small Protestant churches are fairly independent,
far removed from any oversight and authority of an originating denominational
body. Each local pastor is essentially the Pope as far as a local congregation
is concerned. As a result, when local church elders are notified of a scandal,
they are intimately aware that if the news goes public, it will mean certain
death to the church, employees, and assets. As such, it is no surprise that
some denominations go as far as to document policies to protect the church from
scandals.

    “In some cases, the elders will form a judicial committee to handle the
    alleged wrongdoing that may also constitute a violation of criminal law
    (e.g., murder, rape, child abuse, fraud, theft, assault). Generally, the
    elders should not delay the judicial committee process, but strict
    confidentiality must be maintained to avoid unnecessary entanglement with
    secular authorities who may be conducting a criminal investigation of the
    matter.”– Official Jehovah’s Witness Memo, 2014
    * Yes, of course most Christians would argue that Jehovah’s Witnesses
    aren’t “real Christians,” but don’t think for a second that “mainstream”
    churches aren’t just as protective of their reputations (they are just
    smart enough to never put it in writing).

Social Suicide: For most families involved in a church, the church is their
entire community. Tuesday morning with other moms in women’s Bible study
groups, Wednesday night with other couples in a discipleship service, Friday
night with the kids having fun with friends at youth groups while you have a
worship rehearsal, Saturday church picnic with families you have known for
years, before Sunday services filled with volunteering and worshiping with
lifelong friends.

Now, imagine coming forward and pointing a finger at the leader of your church,
the head and even founder of your entire community and social structure.
Reporting these crimes suddenly isn’t just about seeking justice for your
children, there are other consequences – social suicide, banishment, even
direct blame for causing trouble in the church. Some churches will even go as
far as to discipline a wife for wanting to divorce a husband who admits to
being a pedophile.

Trust and Forgiveness: A number of these pastors were registered sex offenders
in previous states, but nobody thought to do background checks before putting
them in positions of power and leaving them alone with their children. Or, in a
couple of cases, the elders knew about their previous cases, but blamed the
victims in the previous cases for making trouble. Likewise, in many of these
cases, you will see that the congregation’s conditioned response is to publicly
forgive the pastor, reminding the outside world that “all sins are equal.” It
should be no surprise that many of these pastors take no responsibiluty for
their own actions, either blaming “the devil” or claiming that they are at
peace because “God has already forgiven” them for their sins.

    As Dr. Ronnie Floyd says, “I’m thankful, whether it’s [Josh Duggar] or any
    other one, that I serve a God who can forgive everything.”

Target Rich Environment: I think it’s important to point out that like any
predator hunting a herd, these men are often specifically drawn to the pulpit
by the promise of easy prey – naive children and trusting parents who grant
them carte blanche because of their godly authority over their flocks. Playing
God.

From the "Counseling Sexual Abuse" course for parents using Bill Gothard's
"Advanced Training Institute" homsechooling materials. (Pay special attention
to #2, 4, 6, & 8 from a victim's perspective.)

#2, 4, 6 & 8… Just read it and think critically about what this teaches
victims.

Coercion, Blaming & Shaming: It’s obvious that any pastor in a position of
authority has tremendous psychological power over their victims while the
attacks are carried out. However, almost more troubling is the culture of blame
and shame that appear once a child overcomes a culture of submission and has
the courage to speak out. For example, to the right is a copy of
the “Counseling Sexual Abuse” course for parents using Bill Gothard’s very
popular “Advanced Training Institute” Christian homsechooling materials. Pay
special attention to #2, 4, 6, & 8 from a young victim’s perspective.)

Likewise, consider this common sentiment coming from the pastors to their
victims, “If they are unwilling to forgive me, then God can’t forgive them.
It’s in the Bible,” pastor Mack Davis told the court after being sentenced with
15 counts of sexual abuse of members of his own youth group. The mind game of
blame and shame just never end.

Tip Of The Iceberg: One very important thing to remember is that according to
the latest major study by the National Research Council, over 80 percent of
sexual assaults go unreported. Now, if you think that is a big number, please
consider that the study only considers the national average of the “general
population” – not of children raised in the church to believe that their pastor
is as close to God as a human can get, and that God’s laws are above man’s
laws, and that the church is handling the situation, and that you shouldn’t do
anything to embarrass the church or your family, and that you need to forgive
in order to be forgiven, etc…  It’s no surprise that very few of these cases
are ever actually reported. (And when they eventually are – why more and more
victims have the courage to come out of hiding and face their attackers in
numbers.)

One important point to remember as you browse the stories below is that many of
these news sites will use language like “former pastor” in their headlines in
order to avoid libel and defamation lawsuits from the churches involved. This
is technically correct because most of the pastors were secretly let go months
before authorities were eventually made aware of the crimes that had occurred
(rarely reported by the churches, as you’ll see). Again, these are only a few
of the stories that made local news that have feeds into Google News. Within
minutes of sharing this post on our Facebook page, commenters were quickly
pointing out stories in their areas that haven’t made the news at all.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[1_hull1]Nathaniel Hull Jr.
First Baptist Church | West Helena, Arkansas
– Rape of 13 year-old girl (DNA confirms baby is his)

[2_sperou]Michael George Sperou
North Clackamas Bible Community | Portland, OR
– Convicted of three counts of raping children under the age of 12

[3_young1]David Young
Simpson United Methodist | Rio Grande, OH
– 15 charges of of sex with minors from two area churches

[4_crawn1]James Crawn
Faith Baptist Church | Idaville, IN
– Charged with sexual abuse of two boys

Corey D. Butler[5_butler]
Jesus Is The Way Christian Center | DeKalb, IL
– Charged with possession and distribution of child pornography

[6_laws1]Michael Laws
The Crossing Church | Mena, AR
– Charged with sexual assault of a minor (church member)

[7_pass1]Peter James Bass
Assembly of God Church | Brooks, OR
– 15 counts of rape and sodomy of minor (church member)

[8_allums]Jerry Allums
Multiple Churches | Stockton, CA
– Arrested for sexual abuse of at least three boys (victims 8-15)

Geronimo “Pastor G” Aguilar[9_aguila]
Richmond Outreach Center (ROC) | Richmond, VA
– Sex with minors (also, abortions and STD’s)

[10_sinko]Venije Singkoh
Multiple Churches | Daly City, CA
– Charged with multiple sexual assaults of 9 year-old girl

[11_best1]Darrell Best (pastor and police officer)
God Of A Second Chance Ministry & Metro P.D. | Washington, D.C.
– Charged with raping minors in church and police HQ

[12_bell1]Keith Bell
Church of God | Shippensburg, PA
– Pleads guilty to child pornography

[13_bravo]Yohandry Bravo
Jesus Is Father Church | Macon, GA
– Charged with rape and aggravated sexual assault of minor

[14_walle]Tony Waller
First Assembly of God | Jonesborough, AR
– Charged with *massive* amounts of child pornography

[15_leder]Brian Lederer
Blessed Sacrament | Hibbing, MN
– Molestation of three girls under the age of 13 (church members)

[16_mccro]Charles McRory
Traveling Preacher | Cheyenne, WY
– Charged with nine counts of rape under the age of 13

[17_aker1]Duncan Aker
Vanceburg Christian Church | Vanceburg, KY
– Nine counts of sodomy and sexual abuse of children under 12

[18_arrel]Isaiah Arellano
Faith Impact Fellowship | Bastrop, TX
– Charged with sexual assault of minor (church member)

19_morganJames Morgan
Trinity Lutheran | New Sweden, ME
– Pleads “no contest” to sexual assault on girl under 12

20_shaubergerEddie Shauberger
Oak Island Baptist Church | Chambers County,
– Pleads guilty to sexual assault of minor

21_masaltaStephen Masalta
New Life Community Church | Woodland, CA
– Voyeurism and exploitation of minors, hidden camera in restroom

22_monsonJames Monson
Gaining Ground Community Church | Sparta, WI
– Charged with three counts of raping a minor (church member)

23_milburnBrandon Milburn
First Christian Church | St. Louis, MO
– Seven counts of sodomy and molestation of minors

Christopher Douglas Ross24_ross
Unnamed Church | Lebanon, TN
– Charged with 10 counts of sex with a minor under his authority

26_stoneJohn Stone
Grandview Baptist | Belton, MO
– Four counts of child molestation (church members under 12)

50_hintzMike Hintz
Lifegate Church | Papillon, NE
– Convicted of sexual exploitation of minor, hired by new church

27_davisMack Allen Davis
Shocco Springs Baptist Camp | Talladega, AL
– Sentenced for 15 counts of child sexual abuse in two states

28_figueraMarcos Figuero
Catalyst Church | Truth or Consequences
– Charged with raping two children from congregation

29_sosaVladimir Sosa
Iglesia Metodista Libre | Bronx, NY
– Pastor/Cop charged with rape and endangerment of a minor
(Update: Charges dropped on statutory technicality.)
30_hamiltonRodney Hamilton
Online Pastor | Lawrenceville, GA
– Murder of 3 year-old neice

25_shafferJared Shaffer
Pleasant Valley Assembly of God | Altoona, PA
– Sexual assault with member of his youth group

31_haffnerJohn Derek Haffner
First United Methodist Church | Pierce, CO
– Soliciting prostitutes (no, not kiddos, but still…)

32_riveraJose David Rivera
Casa De Oracion | Pasadena, TX
– On the run after raping 13 year-old girl (during “choir” practice)

33_rittermanDylan Ritterman
Bethel United Pentecostal Church | Hillsboro, OR
– Pleads guilty to sexual abuse of two boys

34_lemleyDavid ‘Scott’ Lemley
Bethel United Pentecostal Church | Baton Rouge, LA
– Charged with rape of disabled girl with father’s consent

35_bartonGlen Barton
Calvary Way Church | Kilgore, TX
– Charged with aggravated sexual assault of a child

36_taylorJimmy Taylor
Itinerant Preacher | Henderson County, NC
– Repeated sexual assault of three girls (6, 11, and 15)

38_holderBoyd Holder
Victory Apostolic Church | Kingsport, TN
– Having sex with man in church van when arrested for embezzling

30_coerChad Coe
First Congregational Church | Dundee, IL
– Explicit sexting and rape of a minor (church member)

40_oatisVansan Oatis
Walker’s Chapel Free Will Baptist Church | McComb, MS
– Sex with prison inmates (with 4 police officers).

41_damianEdgar Damian
Pentecostal Holiness Church | Wallace NC
– Charged with multiple sexual assaults on teenage girls

42_lawrenceNicholas Lawrence
Church of God | Peoria, IL
– Sexual abuse of a child under 12 and child pornography

43_blissTyler Bliss
Bethel Assembly of God Church| Oakdale, CA
– Sentenced for multiple counts of child pornography

49_andersonJules Anderson Jr.
Divine Spiritual Church of Christ II | Four Corners, LA
– Lured young boy into sugar cane fields for sex

44_fehrBruce Fehr
St Francis Episcopal | Wilmington Island, GA
– Charged with sexual exploitation of children and child pornography

45_hankinsJason Michael Hankins
Shades Crest Baptist Church | Hoover, AL
-22 counts of rape and sodomy of 7 year-old girl (and child pornography)

46_wallsRudolph Walls (previously a registered sex offender)
Friendly Chapel | Dillon, SC
– Criminal sexual conduct with two minors in congregation

47_hampschDerrick Duke Hampsch
First Baptist Church | Vincennes, IN
– Pleads guilty to multiple sex acts with members of youth group

48_wilsonThomas Wilson
Smithville Baptist Church | Smithville, NY
– Pleads guilty to sexually assaulting 9 year-old girl, gets probation

37_duggarBONUS: Josh Duggar
Family Research Council | Washington D.C.
– Repeated child molestation of girls as young a 5 (including sisters)
(Not a pastor? No, just the head of a major Christian ministry.)

Not Perfect, Just Forgiven: These pastors put Christians in an interesting
dilemma. When we shared a similar story last year, I was surprised by how much
of a split there was among Christian responses with very different ideas.

hellfire

sacrifice

Which is it? You can’t have it both ways, folks. By my reading of the Bible, as
long as these pastors repent and accept Jesus, these child rapists will all be
welcomed into heaven with open arms. According to Jesus, there is only ONE
unforgivable sin;

    “I tell you the truth, all sin and blasphemy can be forgiven,  but anyone
    who blasphemes the Holy Spirit will never be forgiven. This is a sin with
    eternal consequences.” – Jesus (Mark 3:28-29 NLT)
   
Meanwhile, if the most perfectly pious person accidentally shouts “God damn it!
” when they stub their toe, they will be destined to burn in hellfire for
eternity. Don’t like this inequality of Biblical justice? Don’t blame me – it’s
in the Bible…

The Moral of The Story: To most Christians, the title of “pastor” comes with a
massive amount of automatic trust, authority, and reverence (thus the title of
Reverend). However, with great power comes great responsibility and families
need to be aware of the unfortunate reality that behind some pulpits stand
truly evil predators who use their positions of power (and cultures of secrecy)
to prey on innocent and trusting children and parents who have been conditioned
in the name of God to obey religious authority figures at all costs. In short,
I just hope this article will help parents wake up, speak out, and protect
their children.

Unfortunately, in pushing for more transparency and accountability among
churches, there is a bit of a Catch-22 at play. The more diligent parents,
kids, and leaders become in reporting crimes to authorities, the worse the
problem will appear from the outside – more cases in the media creating a
scandalous crisis of independent church closures, etc… Some might be tempted to
use this as an opportunity to gloat and attack the faith through lazy
generalizations when what everybody really needs is a helping hand – training,
resources, and support in counseling victims and creating program for
prevention.

From a practical perspective of protecting our loved ones, instead of
completely avoiding the subject of sexuality and/or teaching children the
insane Gothard curriculum of submission, blame, and shame – we should be
teaching our kids how to protect themselves from any predator. We should be
teaching them about inappropriate touching. We should be teaching them how to
protect themselves when we aren’t with them. I’m not an expert, but I’ve always
used the following three steps with my own kids.

 1. YELL – Scream “NO!” (or “Fire!” or “Help!”) at the top of your lungs! Make
    all the noise you can to alert everyone in the area that you are in danger.
    If your mouth is covered, knock things over, break windows, whatever you
    have to do to get attention. Predators don’t like attention!
 2. RUN – Keep yelling and do whatever it takes to get away and find a safe
    place where there are lots of people who can help you. Hit, kick, bite,
    spit, and scratch. Go for the eyes, groin, throat – anywhere that will
    cause the most pain. Just do whatever it takes to get away!
 3. TELL – Tell your parents, tell your teachers, tell your bus drive, call
    911! Tell, tell, tell! You and your friends might not be safe until the
    predator is caught!

Be smart and stay safe, my friends,
– Horus Gilgamesh

    Personal Note: As I mentioned earlier in this post, this is not an attempt
    to make blanket generalizations and accusations about an entire religion
    because of a “few bad apples,” but simply to raise awareness of a problem
    that is largely ignored in Protestant circles. One of the reasons I
    eventually left Christian ministry was my concern over the psychological
    effects of new forms of early childhood evangelism through indoctrination
    of fear and worthlessness. To ignore these horrific crimes after leaving
    the church would be hypocritical, to turn my back on the very children I
    came to understand needed more protection from many forms of harm under the
    banner of “religious freedom.” As I hope I’ve illustrated, these children
    rarely have a voice in these matters. Somebody else has to speak out on
    their behalf. (Please join me and consider sharing this article to raise
    awareness and help protect your loved ones from harm.)

Seems legit...

Not perfect, just forgiven (and 50 shekels poorer). More…

pastors-2015

Uncomfortable But Important: Please feel free to share this page…

 

Do you dare to share?
 

17 Comments

 1. [4686dc] jim6661 June 3, 2015

    Why does this not surprise me? No god-worshiper is to be trusted and their
    leaders are worse. God worship encourages and condones stupidity. It
    inspires treason. I hope someday religion will be made illegal. It has
    always been a source of misery.

    Reply
      □ [473398] awfuldynne . June 4, 2015

        I think misery feeds religion more than religion causes misery. Of
        course, if misery does create a more favorable environment for
        religion, there would be a selective pressure favoring religions that
        manage to cause misery without taking blame.
        *beat*
        Without looking closer at the hypothetical, such a religion sounds like
        it would pre-groom its members for abuse.

        Trying to expand a bit on the hypothetical: to prevent people from
        leaving for metaphorically greener pastures, it would either spread
        misery beyond its own members (making non-members just as miserable as
        members) or somehow hide the fact that non-members are happier than
        members, possibly by spreading a lie that outsiders’ happiness is
        hollow and transient compared to members’ or by insulating members from
        interaction with outsiders.

        Reply
          ☆ [8bb12b] Henry Kratky June 4, 2015

            You’re on the right track. But misery isn’t at the root of it all.
            Fear is. The foundation of the social control that religion enjoys
            is the fear of a wrathful god. Since religious leaders have lost
            their ability to point to such wrath in phenomena that science has
            long since debunked, they use what is left. The lies you mentioned,
            about life outside is part of the fear campaign (the military uses
            this one too). As is the social stigma (mentioned in the article)
            directed at members who don’t unquestioningly accept the authority
            of the church. And why? Because fear motivates, more completely and
            with more sustainability, than any other emotion. It also causes
            people to make decisions without full rational consideration. It
            has motivated people, individually and in numbers, to commit some
            of the greatest atrocities in our history. And how many of THOSE
            have been instigated for religious reasons, eh?

            Reply
              ○ [473398] awfuldynne . June 4, 2015

                You’re right. Fear encapsulates the concept better than misery
                does, and also makes my point about abuse much more
                effectively, since abuse is less about inflicting pain than it
                is about maintaining and exerting control.
                The “misery” I had in mind was existential instability, such
                that one particularly bad turn could destroy your life. Such a
                life causes stress, generates fear, but does not actually
                result in increased reports of unhappiness.

                Reply
                  ■ [cd35f8] Zenagirl July 18, 2015

                    And children’s group leader is a very attractive post for a
                    child predator. He or she is usually quite skilled at
                    gaining the trust of parents and other members of the
                    church. Then the use of fear keeps the kids from talking
                    because the poor things are afraid that the fault /sin is
                    their own. Or the kids are told that what is going on is
                    “too holy” to talk about and the parents would not
                    understand.

 2. [4ae911] Sally Webb June 3, 2015

    Excellent, well written article and awesome rant. Thank you for speaking
    truth for those who can’t. BTW a typo: “However, with great power comes
    great responsibility and families need to be aware of the unfortunate
    reality the behind some pulpits stand truly evil predators …” SB
    ‘unfortunate reality THAT behind some pulpits …’

    Reply
 3. [5b1e6c] skyfisherman June 4, 2015

    Just to note, Dylan Ritterman was technically guilty of molesting at least
    3 boys. Plea deal allowed all charges related to developmentally disabled
    boy to be dropped. Ridiculous to think so much damage is done by these men,
    and so little time is being served by most of them.

    Reply
      □ [2a3251] Horus Gilgamesh June 4, 2015

        Interesting. I wonder why the charges related to the disabled boy were
        dropped? In one of these cases, they dropped charges related to the
        rape of a disabled woman because technically, since she couldn’t
        consent or not consent, there was no way to prove that she didn’t
        consent. Eff… :-(

        Reply
          ☆ [cd35f8] Zenagirl July 18, 2015

            Probably the same kind of junk. Something along the lines of “since
            he is disabled we can’t tell if he’s lying so dismiss those
            charges.” Just a guess.

            Reply
 4. [f8f9c0] Terri June 4, 2015

    One of the most shocking things to come out of the Duggar situation, I
    believe, was the idea that something society thought we all agreed on —
    that children were off-limits and predators would not be tolerated — was
    not actually the case for (apparently) a great many people.

    We knew there were some people out there who would excuse predators, there
    are always awful people in any group, but this has really opened our eyes
    to how *many* people out there are ready to dismiss children’s well-being
    so as not to upset the poor predator.

    Reply
 5. [0a9c90] Jim Jones June 4, 2015

    Ok… The only one I’m not sure about in the pastor-list is the one that got
    caught “soliciting prostitutes…” C’mon, hiring hookers is NOT the same as
    kiddie-fiddling… Good story though, Horus!

    Reply
      □ [cd35f8] Zenagirl July 18, 2015

        Jim, I agree that hiring a pro isn’t the same as the child predators,
        but in a lot (not all) of cases, the pro isn’t so much a “professional
        sex worker” as she is a slave to a pimp. Not knowing the circumstances,
        who’s to say? Also, fornication and/or adultery is still a sin. Plus
        this dude is a High School Teacher who teaches “career and life
        choices” classes. He might not belong on a child predator list, but he
        definitely needs to be on someone’s radar.

        Reply
 6. [2d880b] TheGodless July 4, 2015

    You’ve seen FFRF’s monthly Black Collar Crimes section, right? This isn’t
    just a problem with Catholics and Protestants, it’s a problem with nearly
    all religions. I have a theory as to why, but when I’ve mentioned it to
    religious people before, I got silence. It seems like a common sense issue
    to me and, if they would just open their eyes, it’s staring religionists in
    the face:

    A) Anyone can be a religious leader, B) charisma is the #1 attribute needed
    to become a successful leader, C) charism is also the #1 attribute needed
    to become successful at preying on people, particularly gullible people, D)
    religious leaders are often people that have shady backgrounds and that
    have risen to power while preaching about their redemption, E) there’s no
    real standards in checking out potential religious leaders’ history, and F)
    since there are no real checks, the efforts to do the job are minimal, the
    money is easy and often highly lucrative, and the same skills are required
    to be a religious leader as they are to be a swindler or a predator, it
    seems like the job is ready made for predators. I think this all ties into
    all of the honest religious leaders that are exiting their positions in
    record numbers. The exodus is leaving a higher rate of predators in charge
    and leaving more positions open for them to move into. Just look at how
    many priests there are in America compared to 25 years ago and look at how
    many ex-religious leaders have left and joined the Clergy Project. I’ve
    left out quite a few other pieces of evidence I’ve gathered over the years,
    but I’m sure everyone can get the point I’m trying to make.

    Reply
 7. [cd35f8] Zenagirl July 18, 2015

    Horus, I hate to be picky, but at least some of your pics are mixed up. You
    have a blurred photo of a youngish person for Mack Allen Davis, but his
    actual picture is beside Boyd Holder. You have Boyd Holders actual pic for
    Josh Duggar. Rodney Hamilton’s pic is of a white male that I didn’t take
    the time to identify, but you have Rodney’s pic on Mike Hintz who is an
    entirely different white male. Last example is Jared Shafer of Altoona, Pa.
    How can he also be Yohandry Bravo from Macon, Ga?

    Believe me, I am not criticizing your research, I applaud it and am
    appalled by the fact that we hear very little to nothing about these
    heinous crimes. Someone needs to be bringing it to public attention. All I
    am pointing out is that whoever matched the photos to the transgressors,
    needs to be more careful.

    Thank you Horus, for all you do. I am a huge fan and I use a lot of your
    insights when engaged in conversation or debate with others.

    Reply
      □ [2a3251] Horus Gilgamesh July 18, 2015

        Hmm… I’m not seeing this on my end and have checked in three desktop
        browsers so far. Are you on a mobile device? I’m wondering if it’s
        corrupting the html for some reason? The very last name AND photo
        should be Josh Duggar. Yes? No?

        Thanks for your help!

        Reply
 8. [1fc752] Icebiker3 July 18, 2015

    Ah, yes. I wonder what the percentages of predators in the general
    population vs predators in the pulpit?

    Reply
 9. [329e96] Brandon Osborn July 18, 2015

    christianity attracts pedophiles – it’s been known for centuries. This is
    nothing new to those of use who read history. I’m just glad the general
    public is becoming educated. Is it any wonder why christianity is dying?
    Not to me, it isn’t.

    Reply

Trackbacks/Pingbacks

 1. Voice from the Desert >> Blog Archive >> PASTORS ON THE PROWL – A WAKE-UP
    CALL FOR CHRISTIAN FAMILIES - […] http://www.awkwardmomentsbible.com/
    pedophile-pastors-2015/ […]
 2. Pedophile Pastors: What's Wrong With Our Generation? - […] reason I’m
    talking about pedophile pastors today is because of an article entitled,
    Pastors on the Prowl, by Horus…

Post a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

        [                                             ]
        [                                             ]
        [                                             ]
        [                                             ]
        [                                             ]
        [                                             ]
        [                                             ]
Comment [                                             ]

Name * [                              ]

Email * [                              ]

Website [                              ]

[Submit Comment] 

Search for: [                    ] [Search]
Recent Posts

  • Vaccines (And The Very Real Diseases They Prevent)
  • The Self-Inflicted “Religious Persecution” Of An Assistant High School
    Football Coach
  • GOD COPS: New Motto Graces Police Cars
  • Pastors On The Prowl – A Wake-Up Call For Christian Families
  • Louisiana – A Proud Tradition Of Discrimination and Ignorance?

Copyright 2015 - Awkward Bible

[close]

Did you enjoy this page enough to share?

  • RSS22k
  • Follow by Email6k
  • Facebook128k
    Facebook
  • Google+2k
    http://awkwardmomentsbible.com/pedophile-pastors-2015/">
  • Twitter9k
    Visit Us
    Follow
     
  • YouTube35k
    YouTube

