* *

Rosa Rubicondior

Religion, science and politics from a centre-left atheist humanist. The blog
religious frauds tell lies about.

Thursday, 19 May 2011

What Does Rapture Theology Say About Christians?

[rapture]Why do some Christians crave for the 'Rapture'? What do they think
it'll do for them?

And what does this tell us about their morality and their 'Christian love' for
their fellow man?

  • The greatest event they can imagine is their god destroying all life on
    Earth, especially those humans who don't share their 'faith'.
  • They believe that they alone, of all the humans who have ever lived, and of
    all the human societies throughout history, have got it right; everyone
    else, without exception, got it wrong.
  • They believe they will be given a grandstand seat to watch everyone else
    suffering eternal agony, and that this will be a reward for being such good
    people.
  • They believe they are such good people that they deserve to have everything
    for themselves when all the 'undeserving' humans have been killed off.
  • They believe they alone are good enough to occupy an exalted place
    alongside their god whom they believe is creator and ruler of the entire
    Universe. No one else is, or has ever been, that special.
  • They know this because they have been told by someone else that it's true
    and despite the complete lack of any corroborating evidence. They believe
    it simply because they can't imagine NOT being that special.


They actually think that watching other people, and even their loved ones,
suffering unimaginable horrors is a reward!

And these Christians condescend to lecture other people on matters of morality,
ethics and love, and demand the right to meddle in our legislatures, our
courts, our schools, our science, and in all aspects of our lives, including
what we do in the privacy of our own homes...

[Later note] If any Christians feel they've been unfairly tarred with the same
brush, perhaps they would explain why they don't believe in the Second Coming
of Jesus.

                    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━



submit to reddit




Income from ads will be donated to charities such as moderate centre-left
groups, humanist, humanitarian and wildlife protection and welfare
organisations.
Labels: Christianity , Morality
Posted by Rosa Rubicondior at 20:00
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
● ●

51 comments :

 1. [Debunking]
    D.A.N.19 May 2011 at 22:48

    Rosa,

    Touché, but let me just address a few things.

    1. Not true. What I ache to have is a world without evil. Evil will perish,
    and yes that means evil people also. There will be no more pain and
    suffering. Its a good thing.

    2. Wrong. As a Christian, its my position that God has revealed Himself to
    all mankind so that we can know for certain who He is. Those who deny His
    existence are suppressing the truth in unrighteousness to avoid
    accountability to God. It is the ultimate act of rebellion against Him and
    reveals the professing atheist's contempt toward God. You all know what is
    at stake here. Which side are you on. Evil's or good?

    3. Wrong again. Well some do believe that but I do not. What you speak of
    is pre-tribulation rapture. Jesus comes twice (once for his people and then
    again to judge the world) I do not believe in such a thing as its not
    Biblical. I am more of a post-tribulation Rapture believer. It just seems
    to fit better and is certainly more Biblical.

    4. You do understand billions of people have ALREADY died off and YOU are
    reaping the benefits of that fact today, Selfish. :7) Is this a relativist
    fallacy?

    5. Not at all! I am certainly not worthy of His grace. But that is the
    definition of grace now isn't it? Because God gave us grace, there is a way
    to avoid that situation.

    If I were to come over to your house and steal your bike, and you caught
    me, and called the police, and I went to jail, that is justice. Justice is
    getting what you deserve. If I were to come over to your house and steal
    your bike, and you caught me, but you did not call the police, and you let
    me go, that is mercy. Mercy is not getting what you deserve. If I were to
    come over to your house and steal your bike, and you caught me, and you not
    only did not call the police, but you forgave me, and you gave me the bike,
    that is grace. Grace is getting what you do not deserve.

    The reason God is gracious to us, has nothing to do with what is in us.
    Instead, it has everything to do with what is in God: "But God demonstrates
    His own love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for
    us," (Romans 5:8) We receive grace because of God's goodness. It is not
    because we deserve it.

    6. Complete absence of any corroborating evidence? Are you kidding? Rosa,
    assuming that the Bible is not evidence for God because you do not believe
    God exists, is question begging. I am sure you would concede that an
    omniscient, omnipotent being could reveal things to us, such that we can be
    certain of them. While the Bible is my ultimate authority, it is not the
    only means by which God has revealed Himself to us. It is through God's
    collective natural and special revelation that I know for certain He
    exists.

    My question to you now is, how do you know that your reasoning about this
    or ANYTHING is valid?

    >>And these people condescend to lecture other people on matters of
    morality, ethics and love, and demand the right to meddle in our
    legislatures, our courts, our schools, our science, and in all aspects of
    our lives, including what we do in the privacy of our own homes...

    Because We appeal to our creator instead of some arbitrary subjective
    morality which is all you have in an atheistic worldview. You cannot say
    something is "wrong" without invoking or moral law or standard. God is that
    standard.

    ReplyDelete
 2. [003]
    RosaRubicondior19 May 2011 at 23:55

    IOW, you assume that your evidence-free superstition gives you a superior
    moral authority to which all other people should defer.

    And you regard THAT arrogance as a moral stance.

    ReplyDelete
 3. [b16-rounde]
    Philip G21 May 2011 at 10:53

    Wow D.A.N. Try taking a step back and looking at your assertions through
    our eyes. They make no sense whatsoever.

    ReplyDelete
 4. [Frances-Sp]
    Frances Coppola21 May 2011 at 15:24

    Rosa, I think you should avoid asserting that "all" Christians believe
    these things. Actually very few do. You are only considering the beliefs of
    the lunatic fringe. Please, do some homework on what the majority of
    Christians actually believe. You are not doing the cause of atheism any
    favours by presenting as "facts" so many points that are clearly wrong and
    evidently not properly researched.

    ReplyDelete
 5. [003]
    RosaRubicondior21 May 2011 at 16:56

    Frances.

    Perhaps you would be kind enough to list the main Christian denominations
    which don't believe in the Second Coming of Christ, please.

    As I understand it, the only difference between them and Harold Camping's
    cult is over the date.

    ReplyDelete
 6. [Debunking]
    D.A.N.23 May 2011 at 05:30

    Philip,

    >>Wow D.A.N. Try taking a step back and looking at your assertions through
    our eyes. They make no sense whatsoever.

    Yup. I certainly did for years, as an Atheist. The thing is that your
    argument is not with me, it is with Scripture.

    “For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing,
    but to us who are being saved it is the power of God. For it is written: "I
    will destroy the wisdom of the wise; the intelligence of the intelligent I
    will frustrate.” Where is the wise man? Where is the scholar? Where is the
    philosopher of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world?”
    ~1 Corinthians 1: 18-20

    “The man without the Spirit does not accept the things that come from the
    Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, and he cannot understand
    them, because they are spiritually discerned.” ~1 Corinthians 2:14

    "Now faith is being sure of what we hope for and certain of what we do not
    see." ~Hebrews 11:1

    ReplyDelete
 7. [003]
    RosaRubicondior23 May 2011 at 09:24

    D.A.N

    Quoting from a book held to be holy by a minority of the world's
    population, but for which you have presented no supporting evidence that it
    is anything but mythology, is not a valid argument.

    Please try to confine yourelf to arguing with evidence. Any further
    spamming of this blog with preaching will be removed.

    ReplyDelete
 8. [Debunking]
    D.A.N.23 May 2011 at 18:08

    Rosa,

    >>Please try to confine yourelf to arguing with evidence.

    Correction, you meant to say: Please try to confine yourelf to arguing with
    evidence that I am willing to accept.

    Denying evidence because one is resistant to the evidence is not a valid
    argument. Evidence does indeed exists. Evidence that is denied or ignored
    is still evidence. Its the same mentality that gets people to bury bodies
    in their back yard, its evidence that they try to cover up instead of
    dealing with it. Go and try to deny gravity, see if you float. If not, your
    reasoning is flawed. You need a much bigger shovel to bury the plethora of
    evidence for God.

    ReplyDelete
 9. [003]
    RosaRubicondior23 May 2011 at 23:10

    D.A.N

    I'm afraid this blog is not the place to deal with your apparent inability
    to provide a single scrap of the 'plethora' of evidence.

    However, if you feel confident enough, you could try the honest method for
    converting Atheists in another blog entry here:

    http://rosarubicondior.blogspot.com/2011/04/
    do-you-want-to-convert-atheist.html

    It will require evidence and honesty. I think people will understand if you
    can't meet those requirements though...

    BTW, quotes from your favourite book of myths aren't evidence. If you
    require help defining 'evidence' let me know.

    ReplyDelete
10. [Debunking]
    D.A.N.24 May 2011 at 05:25

    Rosa,

    >>It will require evidence and honesty.

    Yes, Yes, we've heard it all before, Still No Evidence!

    >>I think people will understand if you can't meet those requirements
    though...

    Biblical requirements are to speak the truth, not to convert people. You
    want us to do something unbiblical if you wish us to convert/convince you.
    Besides I thought you were an Atheist. If you are, then its not possible to
    have evidence for God. Are you trying to play tricky games here? Any
    evidence presented would be retorted with "Well, that is not evidence for
    God. Because I have another explanation for all of those things..." Silly
    Atheists.

    ReplyDelete
11. [003]
    RosaRubicondior24 May 2011 at 08:13

    D.A.N.

    Don't you get embarrassed having to make so many excuses for not being able
    to substantiate any of your assertions?

    ReplyDelete
12. [b16-rounde]
    Pruthvi25 May 2011 at 09:36

    Im a Hindu by birth and an atheist by choice.I dont think in terms of god.I
    simply believe that theres no 'being' more intelligent than humans in
    planet earth.Theres nothing a human cant do.To all the believers "IN WHAT
    ASPECT OF LIFE DO HUMANS NEED THE HELP OF A SUPERIOR BEING(assuming such a
    being exists)???? " .

    Since im not a very good writer ill post a link.It was a written by a
    person who died of cancer on the May 4th 2011. He was 42 years old then.
    http://penmachine-bu.appspot.com/2007/02/not-new-thing.html

    ReplyDelete
13. [b16-rounde]
    Roger O'Donnell5 July 2011 at 17:08

    I do enjoy a solid bit if circular logic '...the bible is the word of God,
    I know this since the bible says it is, and the bible wouldn't lie because
    the bible is the word of god...'
    And if I stole a bike, I'd expect to get out of jail eventually, not be
    tortured forever.

    ReplyDelete
14. [b16-rounde]
    David5 July 2011 at 17:10

    Cross-posted with attribution to:
    http://www.bad-religion.info/
    what-does-rapture-theology-say-about-christians

    Great article.

    ReplyDelete
15. [Debunking]
    D.A.N.5 July 2011 at 22:28

    Roger,

    >>I do enjoy a solid bit if circular logic

    Is 'begging the question' absolutely fallacious? If so, how?

    Assuming that your reasoning is not evidence for God, is question begging,
    as you start with the presupposition that God does not exist in order to
    conclude that your ability to reason is not evidence of God.

    >>And if I stole a bike, I'd expect to get out of jail eventually, not be
    tortured forever.

    If I were to come over to your house and steal your bike, and you caught
    me, and called the police, and I went to jail, that is justice. Justice is
    getting what you deserve. If I were to come over to your house and steal
    your bike, and you caught me, but you did not call the police, and you let
    me go, that is mercy. Mercy is not getting what you deserve. If I were to
    come over to your house and steal your bike, and you caught me, and you not
    only did not call the police, but you forgave me, and you gave me the bike,
    that is grace. Grace is getting what you do not deserve.

    The reason God is gracious to us, has nothing to do with what is in us.
    Instead, it has everything to do with what is in God: "But God demonstrates
    His own love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for
    us," (Romans 5:8) We receive grace because of God's goodness. It is not
    because we deserve it.

    ReplyDelete
16. [003]
    RosaRubicondior5 July 2011 at 23:32

    D.A.N

    Any further abuse of this blog with preaching will be deleted.

    If you have a compulsion to try to please your imaginary friend, with whom
    you seem to have an abusive relationship, please do it in a more
    appropriate place.

    ReplyDelete
17. [Debunking]
    D.A.N.5 July 2011 at 23:40

    Rosa,

    You invited me to comment. I commented to what Roger said. What you call
    preaching is actually a conversation about God. Its your post's subject. If
    it feels like that water felt to the witch of the east, in the Wizard of
    O.Z. then may I suggest you pick a different subject. If you wish I stop
    talking about this subject, stop inviting over to discuss these things.
    *pshaw

    ReplyDelete
18. [Debunking]
    D.A.N.5 July 2011 at 23:41

    Rosa,

    You invited me to comment. I commented to what Roger said. What you call
    preaching is actually a conversation about God. Its your post's subject. If
    it feels like that water felt to the witch of the east, in the Wizard of
    O.Z. then may I suggest you pick a different subject. If you wish I stop
    talking about this subject, stop inviting me over to discuss these things.
    *pshaw

    ReplyDelete
19. [003]
    RosaRubicondior6 July 2011 at 08:48

    D.A.N.

    You appear not to understand the difference between discussing and
    irrelevant preaching.

    Posting a random irrelevant quote from an unproven book, as though it's
    some sort of automatically clinching cover-all magical proof of anything
    and everything, is not discussing as normal people would understand it.

    If you feel compelled to impress your imaginary friend by prostrating
    yourself before it, please do so elsewhere. This is not the appropriate
    place.

    ReplyDelete
20. [openid16-r]
    onefuriousllama.com15 August 2011 at 22:56

    What dear old D.A.N. is doing is what all Christians of his calibre do:
    impose idiocy on themselves.

    It's tragic really, to see otherwise reasonable seeming people flat out
    refuse to see reason and logic in favour of their superstition.

    D.A.N.'s insistence that the Bible is evidence and that we 'assume' there
    is no god is so childish it's pathetic to the extreme. He doesn't believe
    in a great many things, like the pink unicorn in my garage for example and
    yet sees no problem with accusing the rest of us who don't believe in his
    fairy god father of having so assume there is no god.

    That there is no god is the default assumption. D.A.N. doesn't believe that
    the 3000 odd other gods of human invention exist does he? No. There is no
    god like there is no Santa Clause and until somebody proves otherwise, that
    is the way it will be. That D.A.N. even tries to argue by stating our
    assumption about his god is wrong while holding the very same assumption
    not only for thousands of other gods but literally millions of other things
    is... why, it's hypocritical. The number one Christian property.

    That D.A.N. would insist that a self contradictory, reality contradictory
    book of dubious origin is evidence for anything other than bronze age
    creation myths is also pretty sad and pathetic. I can't help but wonder if
    he's even read it all himself.

    D.A.N. and his ilk are adults acting like children and should be ridiculed
    for believing ridiculous things without any evidence.

    ReplyDelete
21. [Debunking]
    D.A.N.15 August 2011 at 23:13

    Onefuriousllama,

    How do you know that your reasoning about this or ANYTHING is valid?

    ReplyDelete
22. [003]
    RosaRubicondior15 August 2011 at 23:18

    Agreed. A good example, in fact, of the God Delusion, where the sufferer
    sees no problem with applying a standard of 'reasoning' and logic to his
    own favourite god which he readily sees as absurd and unreasonable when
    applied to others.

    And never ever consider that one needs to exclude all possible natural
    causes for anything before considering the super-natural, and only THEN
    should one turn one's mind to which particular supernatural explanation of
    all possible supernatural ones, is the only possible one, if indeed there
    is only one.

    Nope, the deluded just plunge straight in with their preferred answer to
    everything, and then spend all their mental energy trying to rationalise
    that preference by rigorously refusing to consider any other.

    ReplyDelete
23. [003]
    RosaRubicondior16 August 2011 at 00:08

    D.A.N.

    Evidence. It's what we call 'science'.

    ReplyDelete
24. [Debunking]
    D.A.N.16 August 2011 at 00:35

    Rosa,

    As a buddy pointed out, "As far as science goes, science is dependent on
    the uniformity of nature, or no scientific prediction could be made.
    Problem is, no atheistic worldview can account for the uniformity of
    nature, the very foundation of science."

    How do you account for the universal, abstract, invariant, like reason,
    mathematics, and laws of logic. On what basis you proceeds with the
    assumption that they WILL hold?

    While the Christ the Word is my ultimate authority, it is not the only
    means by which God has revealed Himself to us. It is through God's
    collective natural and special revelation that I know for certain my senses
    are reliable and can account for truths that are absolute, immaterial,
    universals like the laws of logic and reason.

    With regard to logic, please tell me how your adopted worldview accounts
    for those laws, how you know they are valid, how you know they are
    universal, and on what basis you expect them to hold 2 seconds from now?

    ReplyDelete
25. [003]
    RosaRubicondior16 August 2011 at 08:14

    D.A.N

    In other words, you've managed to rationalise away reality when it doesn't
    suit you and you see no problem with using an electronic computer to tell
    people over the Internet that your superstitious guesses trump science.

    And still the refusal to consider that YOU need to prove YOUR implicit
    claims that:

    1. All possible natural explanations can be ruled out so ONLY a
    supernatural one should be considered.

    2. That the ONLY possible supernatural explanation, of all possible
    supernatural explanations, is your favourite god, the existence of which
    you have never managed to provide a single iota of supporting evidence.

    In fact, all you have done is show us how you maintain your delusion and
    cope with the inevitable theophobia, by trying to placate your imaginary
    'friend' by abandoning all intellectual integrity and hoping it looks
    kindly on you in appreciation.

    For a grown adult who, presumably still manages to live a normal life, and
    so IS capable of rational thinking, this infantile compartmentalised
    thinking would be amusing if it wasn't so proudly displayed and eagerly
    foisted on the young and vulnerable with such enthusiasm.

    But thank you for showing such a fine example of the God Delusion, the
    intellectual moral degeneracy which it causes and the mental disorder it
    relies on to propagate and sustain itself.

    ReplyDelete
26. [Debunking]
    D.A.N.16 August 2011 at 10:41

    >>the existence of which you have never managed to provide a single iota of
    supporting evidence.

    Your very ability to reason about evidence is evidence of God. Now,
    assuming that your reasoning is not evidence for God, is question begging
    though, as you start with the presupposition that God does not exist in
    order to conclude that your ability to reason is not evidence of God.

    >> the intellectual moral degeneracy which it causes and the mental
    disorder it relies on to propagate and sustain itself.

    Go look up what a relativist fallacy is. You might find it enlightening
    with this claim of yours. ;7)

    ReplyDelete
27. [003]
    RosaRubicondior16 August 2011 at 18:52

    D.A.N.

    I'm afraid something plucked out of the air doesn't become evidence for
    anything just because you assert it is.

    Once again you have shown an example of the intellectual dishonesty you
    need to use in order to maintain your delusion and placate your imaginary
    friend.

    I note that you completely ignored the requirement to prove that a natural
    explanation is impossible before invoking a super-natural one, and that
    once again you bypassed the step of showing that your favourite
    supernatural explanation is the ONLY possible one of all the infinite array
    of possible supernatural explanations.

    This was, of course, entirely predictable.

    Thank you for your co-operation with exposing the infantile superstitions
    and mental disorders which pass as religions, and the mind control they
    exercise over their unfortunate victims.

    ReplyDelete
28. [Debunking]
    D.A.N.17 August 2011 at 20:53

    Rosa,

    OK, to help you to avoid "something plucked out of the air doesn't become
    evidence for anything just because you assert it is."

    I have two questions:

    How do you know that your reasoning about this or ANYTHING is valid?

    ALSO

    How do you account for the universal, abstract, invariant laws of logic,
    and on what basis you proceeds with the assumption that they WILL hold?

    ReplyDelete
29. [003]
    RosaRubicondior17 August 2011 at 23:08

    D.A.N.

    Nice attempt at combining the God of the Gaps, fallacy, the argument from
    ignorance fallacy and the false dichotomy fallacy.

    Will you even try the honest method and show:

    1. Why no natural explanation is possible.

    2. Why your favourite god is the ONLY possible supernatural explanation?

    Or will you just keep repeating yourself hoping against hope that it'll all
    come true if you assert it often enough?

    But thank you for yet another example of the intellectual dishonesty upon
    which your superstitious delusion relies.

    I rather think you've made that point with sufficient force now, albeit
    unwittingly, don't you?

    ReplyDelete
30. [003]
    RosaRubicondior17 August 2011 at 23:13

    D.A.N.

    By the way, I have produced a handy guide for Christian Apologists which
    contains most of the tricks and fallacies you use, and added some used by
    others.

    You might find this useful: http://rosarubicondior.blogspot.com/2011/08/
    so-youve-decided-to-be-apologist-for.html

    ReplyDelete
31. [003]
    RosaRubicondior17 August 2011 at 23:18

    D.A.N.

    Forgot to say, make sure you use the Christian version as there is also an
    Muslim version. The only real differences are that the words God, Jesus and
    Bible have been changed to Allah, Mohammed and Qur'an, otherwise the
    'arguments', 'reasoning' and fallacies are identical.

    ReplyDelete
32. [Debunking]
    D.A.N.17 August 2011 at 23:38

    >>Or will you just keep repeating yourself hoping against hope that it'll
    all come true if you assert it often enough?

    DUDE!!!!!

    Rosa, You will NOT answer my questions. Its YOUR avoidance that leads me to
    repeating the question. *pshaw

    Don't go blaming me because you're too scared to address such questions.

    Just answer the questions and we can continue this discussion and I can
    address your question thoroughly. Otherwise, keep INJECTING your
    "conspiracy theory" that everyone is against you.

    Everyone here can see that is what you're doing. Let me guess, you will not
    allow this to go through in your "moderation".

    If you do you will, at least, show some signs of hope in pursuit of truth.

    Whatever, dork. :7)

    ReplyDelete
33. [003]
    RosaRubicondior17 August 2011 at 23:57

    D.A.N.

    The trick you are now trying of diverting attention from your own failures
    by demanding answers to an irrelevant question is detailed in that guide
    book.

    How about adopting honesty and seeing how you fare, or have you ruled that
    approach out as being counter-productive?

    ReplyDelete
34. [Debunking]
    D.A.N.18 August 2011 at 00:19

    Rosa,

    Take your own advice girl:

    How about adopting honesty and seeing how you fare, or have you ruled that
    approach out as being counter-productive?

    How do you know that your reasoning about this or ANYTHING is valid?

    ALSO

    How do you account for the universal, abstract, invariant laws of logic,
    and on what basis you proceeds with the assumption that they WILL hold?

    ReplyDelete
35. [003]
    RosaRubicondior18 August 2011 at 09:10

    D.A>N.

    I see you're still relying on the tired old tactic of demanding I answer an
    irrelevant question to divert attention from your own abject failure.

    Just to remind you, your task is to:

    Firstly, show that no natural explanation is possible so you need to look
    for a supernatural one.

    Secondly, prove that, of all possible supernatural explanations, ONLY the
    god you are promoting could have done it.

    I appreciate this is impossible for you so you have to avoid trying
    otherwise you won't be able to avoid admitting failure even to yourself.

    You see, this is how we know that your 'faith' is just a paranoid delusion
    which you are too afraid to confront through theophobia.

    Thank you for your help once again but how many times are you going to
    present that evidence to the world?

    BTW, that guide I showed you has a lot more tricks you can use, if you're
    also finding your small selection rather tedious.

    ReplyDelete
36. [Debunking]
    D.A.N.18 August 2011 at 20:22

    Rosa,

    There you go YET AGAIN. You crack me up. How do you KNOW my "tasks" without
    accounting for that SOURCE of knowledge? Otherwise, it breaks down to more
    bare assertions.

    Your comments also reveals a belief in the existence of knowledge, which is
    certain by definition. How is this possible in an "atheistic" worldview?

    Are you certain that God cannot reveal some things to us such that we can
    know them for certain, if so, how are you certain of this?

    Someone once told me that "A fool takes no pleasure in understanding but
    only in expressing [her] opinion." I guess that was proven true today.

    >>Secondly, prove that, of all possible supernatural explanations, ONLY the
    god you are promoting could have done it.

    Assuming that the Bible is not evidence for God, because you do not believe
    God exists, is question begging.

    Rosa, I don't expect you to like what I write. Assuming that your reasoning
    is not evidence for God, is question begging though, as you start with the
    presupposition that God does not exist in order to conclude that your
    ability to reason is not evidence of God.

    Its pointless in trying to show you the truth so that you can repent, you
    will not be able to see the truth UNTIL you repent. Huge difference.

    The most important point here, that you are unable to UNDERSTAND or know
    the truth UNTIL you repent. Repentance comes BEFORE knowledge of truth, not
    after.

    ReplyDelete
37. [003]
    RosaRubicondior18 August 2011 at 23:11

    D.A.N.

    Since you appear to believe the last player to leave the field is the
    winner and since you seem to have made a hobby out of demonstrating your
    intellectual dishonesty and how your superstition depends on it, I'll let
    you have the last word.

    I note with quiet satisfaction that you've again avoided dealing with the
    simple task you need to complete to show you have a credible case, so can I
    just say thank you again for helping me demonstrate the delusional nature
    of your infantile Bronze Age superstition, devised as it was by people who
    hadn't even invented the wheel.

    Thank you. You've been a great help to Atheism.

    ReplyDelete
38. [Debunking]
    D.A.N.18 August 2011 at 23:28

    Well this was my point all along. To show you how illogical your own
    worldview is.

    Salvation is not just for the next life Rosa - Not only did Christ's death
    and resurrection save souls for eternity, it saves our reasoning now.
    Again, I beg you to repent and turn from rejecting the God you know exists,
    and accept the free gift of Jesus Christ's payment for your sins, so that
    you might be saved from Hell, spend an eternity with God, AND have a firm
    foundation for your reasoning NOW.

    ReplyDelete
39. [003]
    RosaRubicondior18 August 2011 at 23:35

    D.A.N.

    Any more gratuitous preaching here will be removed, even if you feel it's
    the only way you can curry favour with the imaginary friend you obviously
    fear and feel compelled to placate at every opportunity.

    ReplyDelete
40. [Dreaming]
    Maniacal Mark3 September 2011 at 14:46

    It would seem that D.A.N. wants an explanation of how we know what we
    believe to be fact: i.e., how do we explain that all of "God's miracles"
    are not just that. There is this thing called Science. And looking for it
    is not hard to do- just go visit your local library or bookstore, and there
    are volumes upon volumes of how we come to our conclusion that the world,
    the universe and everything else has been explained by years of hard work
    and experimentation in labs, both in man made and natural settings.
    D.A.N. says, "A fool takes no pleasure in understanding, but only
    expressing (her) opinion." The difference in his opinion and an Athiests is
    ours is not "opinion", but fact, supported by irrefutable evidence, unlike
    the "opinion" of his fairy tale. It would seem that the friend that he was
    referring to was speaking about his belief, which is what an opinion is.
    Ours is backed up by physical evidence- just look in an electron microscope
    sometime!

    ReplyDelete
41. [Debunking]
    D.A.N.8 September 2011 at 07:53

    Maniacal Mark ,

    >>There is this thing called Science.

    I already pointed out that, science is dependent on the uniformity of
    nature, or no scientific prediction could be made. Problem is, no atheistic
    worldview can account for the uniformity of nature, the very foundation of
    science.

    Insistently, William Craig pointed out there are 5 things that cannot be
    scientifically evidenced, but we're all rational to accept:

    1. Logical and mathematical truths, science presupposes logic and math.
    2. Metaphysical truths. Like the universe was created 5 minutes ago with
    the appearance of age.
    3. Ethical beliefs and statements of value
    4. Esthetic judgments. Beautiful, like the good, cannot be scientifically
    proven
    5. Science ITSELF cannot be justified by the scientific method. Its also
    permeated with unprovable assumptions.

    You are doing what we call the "cult of science" Science DEPENDS on the
    peer review right? Well...

    "The peer review system does not always detect fraud, plagiarism, poor
    quality or gross error and there is editorial reluctance to correct errors
    or to publish criticisms of sacred cows or 'controversial' or nonconformist
    views of skeptics and dissident minorities." ~http://bit.ly/3gUcsN

    >>The difference in his opinion and an Athiests is ours is not "opinion",
    but fact, supported by irrefutable evidence, unlike the "opinion" of his
    fairy tale.

    Erm, 'evidence' also presupposes ‘logic, knowledge, and truth” care to tell
    me how you account for them according to YOUR worldview?

    >> Ours [opinions] is backed up by physical evidence- just look in an
    electron microscope sometime!

    This is a perfect example of a knowledge claim for us to examine. You speak
    as if you are certain that your knowledge is "backed up by physical
    evidence". Are you?

    ReplyDelete
42. [003]
    RosaRubicondior8 September 2011 at 10:00

    D.A.N.

    I was amused to see you using a computer over the Internet to try to fool
    people that science is all wrong.

    ReplyDelete
43. [Debunking]
    D.A.N.8 September 2011 at 18:56

    Rosa,

    I think your fallacious argument needs examining a bit.

    Science is true because internet works? Really?

    Anyway, you do understand it was believers in God and a Christian that
    created the scientific method, don't you? All the major Universities were
    founded by Christians.

    I want to get back to that core belief. Secular science has infiltrated,
    hijacked, and completely corrupted that system. Rendering it useless. Now,
    its perverted to its core. I just saw a few documentaries one was "Fat
    Head" that explained about the corruption in science very well. The other
    was "Generation RX" which is a perfect example of how Science is corrupted
    when they regulate themselves, especially when cash is involved. Which is
    ALWAYS. My point is that all science is not good.

    Science has not moved us anywhere, like Christ Hedges pointed out,
    "Technology and science, though they are cumulative and have improved, in
    many ways, the lives of people within the industrialized nations, have also
    unleashed the most horrific forms of violence and death, and let's not
    forget, environmental degradation, in human history."

    Hedges later added in the interview "That's what leads Hitler to try and
    breed humans and apes to try to create an oversized warrior or to send
    expeditions to Tibet to find a pure, Aryan race. I mean, that's not
    science. It's the cult of science, and I think the New Atheists also make
    that leap from science into the cult of science, and that's a problem." ~
    Chris Hedges

    My point is that, science may be your god, but your god is a corrupt system
    of agendas. Immoral secular scientists take the credit for all of that.

    Principled, morally grounded and God fearing, scientists are not the
    problem here. The secularization of a sound system was.

    ReplyDelete
44. [Debunking]
    D.A.N.8 September 2011 at 18:59

    When I said "Rendering it useless." that may have been a little bit
    rantish.

    A better, more rational and honest, position would be "Rendering it
    untrustworthy."

    Carry on.

    ReplyDelete
45. [003]
    RosaRubicondior8 September 2011 at 19:44

    D.A.N

    Have you seen the handy guide I wrote for Christian apologists such as you?
    You'll see it covers most of the fallacies and attempted deceptions of
    vulnerable and gullible people you normally use. You're welcome to use it
    but bear in mind that most normal people can see through the sophistry even
    if you close your eyes and wish really hard that they don't.

    Let me know if there was anything I missed.

    BTW, be careful to download the Christian version as there is an Islamic
    version too. It's not terribly important but a few of the words are
    different between the two versions.

    You're welcome.

    ReplyDelete
46. [b16-rounde]
    Liebo22 December 2012 at 09:30

    Can't we have just one person to sit and think and conclude: "you know
    what, I can't answer those questions".I can't explain why my god must be
    the only true one, which means what is one of the others, or none of the
    others is the right one? What if its none? People need to be honest with
    themselves before trying to be honest to others.

    ReplyDelete
47. [b16-rounde]
    John Gallagher15 October 2013 at 22:33

    D.A.N.

    Try explaining to me the difference between the Flying Spaghetti Monster,
    who has his own Gospel, your version of God, who has his own version of the
    Bible, Yaweh and his documented "evidence, Allah, who has the Quran, Zeus,
    Odin, Ra and every other of the 5,000 or so "Gods" that are worshipped
    today by people with limited imaginations. All of these are seen as
    creators.
    BTW: Saying "Because the Bible say so" is not an acceptable argument.

    ReplyDelete
    Replies
     1. [003]
        Rosa Rubicondior15 October 2013 at 23:37

        I think DAN gave up trying to use dishonesty and evasion to convert
        people here. He's probably trying his deception on a more credulous
        audience somewhere.

        Delete
     2. [photo]
        Dan Marvin16 October 2013 at 00:34

        Is FSM part of your worldview John? Or are you speaking of hypothetical
        worldviews?

        My Atheistic worldview does not allow for FSM. You see, if you bring
        into the argument hypothetical worldviews then so can I, and we get
        nowhere. Now, how are you absolutely certain your worldview is the
        correct one? Feelings? Faith? Hunch? Evidences? Or dogma?

        If you're honest, to yourself more then anyone else, could you be wrong
        about your worldview that is dirived solely by autonomous reasoning? I
        am sure you will grant mankind's fallibility so what is making you so
        certain, to the point of battling and defending it religiously?

        Part two of that question is, how do you reconcile the validity of your
        senses, memory, and reasoning with your fallibility?

        Thanks

        Delete
        Reply
48. [2570294007]
    WriterWriter12 August 2014 at 17:22

    Wow. That D.A.N. guy just does not get it....

    ReplyDelete
    Replies
     1. [photo]
        Debunking Atheists12 August 2014 at 20:02

        Get what? That you are barely asserting something without evidence? Oh,
        we get it. That I won't accept your dogma that you all spew out? Well,
        you might have a valid point there. :)

        Delete
        Reply

Add comment
Load more...

Obscene, threatening or obnoxious messages, preaching, abuse and spam will be
removed, as will anything by known Internet trolls and stalkers or by known
sock-puppet accounts.

A claim made without evidence can be dismissed without evidence. Remember: your
opinion is not an established fact unless corroborated.

 

 

Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments ( Atom )

ShareThis

●
Related Posts Plugin for WordPress, Blogger...
●
[INS::INS]

Click Your Flag To Translate

[Albania] [Armenia] [gse_multip] [Azerbaijan] [Bangladesh] [Basque] [Belarus]
[Brazil] [Bulgaria] [Andorra] [gse_multip] [gse_multip] [Croatia] [Czech_Repu]
[Denmark] [Esperanto] [Estonia] [Finland] [gse_multip] [Galicia] [Georgia]
[gse_multip] [Greek] [Haiti] [Israel] [Hungarian] [Iceland] [India] [India]
[India] [India] [India] [Indonesia] [Ireland] [gse_multip] [gse_multip]
[Kenyan] [gse_multip] [Laos] [Latvia] [Lithuania] [Macedonian] [Malaysian]
[Maltese] [Netherland] [Norway] [Persian] [Philippine] [Polish] [gse_multip]
[Romainian] [gse_multip] [Serbia] [Slovakia] [Slovenia] [So] [gse_multip] [Sri]
[Sweden] [Thailand] [Turkish] [Ukraine] [Vatican] [Vietnam] [Welsh] [Yiddish]
●

Search This Blog and More (slow)

Loading...
●
                                       
                         Search Just This Blog (Fast)

                        [                    ] [Search]
●

Please note:

All posts (C) Rosa Rubicondior. Contents may be reproduced without permission
provided credit is given to the author, it is not altered in any way, the
context is made clear and a link is provided to the original.

Hopefully, religious and other offensive advertising content has now been
blocked from this site. Please let me know if you see any.

Note: This is my only blog. Others purporting to be by me or bearing my ident
will contain plagiarised and deliberately altered material from this site or
material presented as being by me. They will usually be run and maintained by a
well-know unemployable Internet abuser, fraud and expelled Catholic seminarian
who appears to have developed an obsessive fascination with me, bordering on
the psychotic. He can be read about here.
●

Readers To Date

●
                                       
                                 Books by me.
                           Also available for kindle

●
                                       
                            My Kindle Publications

                                       

●

Stand-Alone Pages

  • Home
  • About Me
  • Books, Books, Books and More Books
  • Fake Miracles
  • Evolution
  • Common Origins
  • Blogs And Websites
  • It's An Old World After All
  • C.S.Lewis Dissected
  • Understanding Fallacies
  • Absurd Bible
  • The Ten Commandments
  • Religion And Science
  • Apologetics
  • Matthew's Silly Gospel
  • Sac Bag [Updated]
  • History of Ireland

●

Subscribe

[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Comments
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Comments
●

Follow by Email

[                    ]                                                 [Submit]

●
●
                                       
                                    Google+

                               Rosa Rubicondior
                                 [1000071798]
                                       

                       Follow me on App.net  [Rosarubic]

                       Rosa Rubicondior      [goblink]

                  coolsocial.net rosarubicondior.blogspot.ca
●

Some of My Favourite
Books. Click to Buy.
                                                                           Amazon.com Widgets
embed(http://
ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com
/widgets/q?
ServiceVersion=
20070822&MarketPlace
=US&ID=
V20070822%2FUS%2Frosarub-20%2F8003%2Fc6e9f10b-c843-4c5d-aac8-a632434cddba  Any commission earned from sales by Amazon will be
&Operation=                                                                donated to Oxfam.
GetDisplayTemplate)
Amazon.com Widgets


●
                              Live Traffic Stats
●

Top 10 Posts Last 30 Days

  • [hamark-]
    2015 - Another Miserable Year for Creationism
    This is the third year I've written up a brief summary of some of the most
    interesting papers on evolution and related science for the p...
  • [Hag]
    Pope Francis - Faking It For The Faithful
    No, this is not another blog about how Pope Francis eagerly participates in
    such obviously fake 'miracles' as the 'St Gennaro bl...
  • [Brookly]
    Qur'an Quandary - Where is the Original?
    Early Qur'an Source: Wikipedia Image: Donated by Brooklyn Museum, USA Ask
    any Muslim what the Qur'an is and who wrote it, and yo...
  • [strawco]
    Has the 'Intelligent Designer' Got OCD?
    African straw-coloured bat Filovirus receptor NPC1 contributes to
    species-specific patterns of ebolavirus susceptibility in bats | eLife ...
  • [Tasmani]
    Devil's Own Intelligent Design?
    Tasmania devil Sarcophilus harrisii A second transmissible cancer in
    Tasmanian devils . A little over 30 years ago, Tasmanian devils, m...
  • [800px-B]
    To Have And To Harm Until Death Do Us Part
    His Excellency Braulio Rodriguez Plaza Archbishop of Toledo, Spain Source:
    Wikipedia Fury as archbishop says domestic violence is caused...
  • Mother Teresa's Fake Miracle
    On the subject of the Catholic Church's faked miracles, in the style of a
    phony televangelist or 'faith healer' fraudster, we ha...
  • [nchem]
    Laboratory Abiogenesis Observed?
    Library synthesis and the mechanism of self-replication. For description,
    see original source . Diversification of self-replicating mol...
  • [EmptyPe]
    Going, Going... Nearly Gone!
    Church of England attendance plunges to record low - Telegraph Active
    membership of the Church of England in Britain is in freefall. The...
  • [Unpreju]
    New Book: An Unprejudiced Mind
    An Unprejudiced Mind: Atheism, Science and Reason is my latest book - a
    sequel to The Light Of Reason: And Other Atheist Writing series - ...

●
●
                                       
                               Around and about




●
                                       
                Darwin  Join the best atheist themed blogroll!

                                 [buzzerhut1]

●

International Following

Free counters!
●
                                                       Amazon Wireless

                                                       ●
                                                       
                                                       Blogs I Follow

                                                         • 
                                                           freethoughtblogs.com
                                                           /pharyngula
                                                           Memories!
                                                           4 hours ago
                                                         • 
                                                           Rantings of a New
                                                           Yorker
                                                           Rebecca Goldstein &
                                                           Susan Jacoby: Why
                                                           Women Are Too Polite
                                                           About Religion
                                                           8 hours ago
                                                         • 
                                                           The Freethinker
                                                           ‘Reach out to
                                                           Muslims, grow a
                                                           beard’ says Anglican
                                                           bishop
                                                           10 hours ago
                                                         • 
                                                           Encyclopedia of
                                                           American Loons
                                                           [hqdefau]
                                                           #1578: Michael
                                                           Ellenburg
                                                           13 hours ago
                                                         • 
                                                           Infidel753
                                                           [default]
                                                           Video of the day --
                                                           Hee Haw Palin!
                                                           18 hours ago
                                                         • 
                                                           Republic of Gilead
                                                           IHOP's Mike Bickle
                                                           Endorses Ted Cruz
                                                           19 hours ago
                                                         • 
                                                           Debunking
                                                           Christianity
                                                           Got A Title for My
                                                           Next Published Book
                                                           19 hours ago
                                                         • 
                                                           Godless
                                                           Spellchecker's Blog
                                                           What’s A ‘Real
                                                           Muslim’ Anyway?
                                                           20 hours ago
                                                         • 
                                                           Science & Nature |
                                                           Smithsonian.com
                                                           Where Are All the
                                                           Aliens? Taking
                                                           Shelter From the
                                                           Universe's Radiation
                                                           1 day ago
                                                         • 
                                                           News at Nature -
                                                           Articles published
                                                           Today
                                                           Researchers question
                                                           design of fatal
                                                           French clinical
                                                           trial
                                                           1 day ago
Amazon Promotions                                        • 
                                                           SciLogs.com Feed
●                                                          Posts
                                                           The SCICOMM 25
Blog Archive                                               (1.22.16)
                                                           1 day ago
  • ►  2016 ( 9 )                                        • 
      □ ►  January ( 9 )                                   Roll to Disbelieve
                                                           Donald Trump, Bloom
  • ►  2015 ( 269 )                                        County, and the
      □ ►  December ( 13 )                                 Short, Self-Serving
      □ ►  November ( 21 )                                 Memory of the
      □ ►  October ( 23 )                                  Religious Right.
      □ ►  September ( 16 )                                1 day ago
      □ ►  August ( 19 )                                 • 
      □ ►  July ( 20 )                                     Roll to Disbelieve
      □ ►  June ( 31 )                                     Donald Trump, Bloom
      □ ►  May ( 32 )                                      County, and the
      □ ►  April ( 22 )                                    Short, Self-Serving
      □ ►  March ( 31 )                                    Memory of the
      □ ►  February ( 22 )                                 Religious Right.
      □ ►  January ( 19 )                                  1 day ago
                                                         • 
  • ►  2014 ( 212 )                                        Skeptical Raptor's
      □ ►  December ( 16 )                                 Blog
      □ ►  November ( 19 )                                 Séralini GMO article
      □ ►  October ( 19 )                                  vindicated by courts
      □ ►  September ( 22 )                                – absolutely not
      □ ►  August ( 18 )                                   1 day ago
      □ ►  July ( 23 )                                   • 
      □ ►  June ( 21 )                                     Bill the Butcher
      □ ►  May ( 14 )                                      [Llwynog]
      □ ►  April ( 13 )                                    The Thief and the
      □ ►  March ( 17 )                                    Treasure of the
      □ ►  February ( 14 )                                 Ghost Gods: Yet
      □ ►  January ( 16 )                                  Another Tale of
                                                           Bunglistan
  • ►  2013 ( 229 )                                        2 days ago
      □ ►  December ( 7 )                                • 
      □ ►  November ( 17 )                                 New Humanist Blog
      □ ►  October ( 26 )                                  (Rationalist
      □ ►  September ( 26 )                                Association)
      □ ►  August ( 13 )                                   Robots, Big Brother,
      □ ►  July ( 15 )                                     and the death of the
      □ ►  June ( 24 )                                     sun
      □ ►  May ( 24 )                                      2 days ago
      □ ►  April ( 16 )                                  • 
      □ ►  March ( 20 )                                    God Doesn't; We Do
      □ ►  February ( 15 )                                 On (Some of) the
      □ ►  January ( 26 )                                  Varieties of
                                                           Superstitious
  • ►  2012 ( 269 )                                        Experience
      □ ►  December ( 17 )                                 2 days ago
      □ ►  November ( 20 )                               • 
      □ ►  October ( 22 )                                  American Humanist
      □ ►  September ( 14 )                                Association News
      □ ►  August ( 21 )                                   [DarwinDa]
      □ ►  July ( 23 )                                     Darwin on the
      □ ►  June ( 23 )                                     Palouse Celebrates
      □ ►  May ( 16 )                                      Science and Reason
      □ ►  April ( 41 )                                    3 days ago
      □ ►  March ( 37 )                                  • 
      □ ►  February ( 18 )                                 Too Many Questions
      □ ►  January ( 17 )                                  Peace Through
                                                           Conspiracy
  • ▼  2011 ( 123 )                                        3 days ago
      □ ►  December ( 19 )                               • 
      □ ►  November ( 29 )                                 The Friends of
      □ ►  October ( 21 )                                  Charles Darwin
      □ ►  September ( 16 )                                13-Jan-1833: The day
      □ ►  August ( 11 )                                   HMS Beagle nearly
      □ ►  July ( 10 )                                     sank
      □ ►  June ( 8 )                                      1 week ago
      □ ▼  May ( 7 )                                     • 
          ☆ Jesus and the New Deal                         The Red Notebook
          ☆ The God of Personal Necessity                  13-Jan-1833: The day
          ☆ God of The Gaps                                HMS Beagle nearly
          ☆ God The Sadist Almighty                        sank
          ☆ Is Religion a Phobia?                          1 week ago
          ☆ What Does Rapture Theology Say About         • 
            Christians?                                    Leaving
          ☆ The Evolution of Gullibility.                  Fundamentalism
      □ ►  April ( 2 )                                     What does
                                                           brainwashing do?
  • ►  2010 ( 21 )                                         1 week ago
      □ ►  December ( 1 )                                • 
      □ ►  November ( 2 )                                  The Atheist Doctor
      □ ►  October ( 2 )                                   Façade: Review of
      □ ►  September ( 2 )                                 the Movie, “Honor
      □ ►  August ( 5 )                                    Thy Father”
      □ ►  July ( 3 )                                      2 weeks ago
      □ ►  June ( 3 )                                    • 
      □ ►  May ( 3 )                                       El Holandés de la
                                                           Casa
●                                                          Bechamel / Velouté
                                                           without clumps - my
Labels                                                     method
                                                           5 weeks ago
Creationism Evolution Science Atheism Religion           • 
Christianity Biology Humanism Bible Catholics Morality     Sam Harris: Author,
Apologetics History Anthropology Secularism Nature         Philosopher,
Theology Fraud Politics Pope Human Rights Islam            Essayist, Atheist
Fallacy Logic Mythology Religious abuse Mental Health      Sam Harris: The
Wildlife Health Vatican Hypocrisy Memes Physics Bible      ‘Salon’ Interview
Contradictions Geology Cosmology Conservation Delusion     1 month ago
Psychology Superstition Archaeology Cults Feminism       • 
Genocide Miracles Art Cosmos Democracy Evidence Birds      Pharyngula
Freedom My Books Parasitism Peace Astronomy Faith          An anthropologist
Insanity Intelligence Judaism Abuse Agnosticism            who thinks we aren’t
Environment Genetics Language Mormon Music                 apes
Palaeontology Philosophy Qur'an Abiogenesis Anglicans      2 months ago
Chemistry Christmas Climate Crime Culture Dogma          • 
Genealogy Gullibility Humour Oxfam Physiology              Answers in Genes
Probability Racism Theophobia Dogs EU Egypt Extremism      [default]
Germany Hindu Hormones Intellectual Property Theft         Fixing the Earth:
Ireland Learning Progress Psychopathy Scotland Sleaze      Piece of Cake
Sociology Space Twitter Vegetarianism Yule                 3 months ago
●                                                        • 
                                                           Deep Thoughts
                                                           Goodbye John Boehner
                                                           3 months ago
                                                         • 
                                                           Deity Shmeity
                                                           Grounding Morality
                                                           in Reason
                                                           4 months ago
                                                         • 
                                                           Laughing in
                                                           Purgatory
                                                           [PIG]
                                                           Atheist Pig:Believe
                                                           It Or Not
                                                           4 months ago
                                                         • 
                                                           The Blind Wulf
                                                           Sacerdotus wins
                                                           4 months ago
                                                         • 
                                                           Something Surprising
                                                           Tariq Ramadan and
                                                           the Charlie Hebdo
                                                           problem
                                                           1 year ago
                                                         • 
                                                           Ramblings of Sheldon
                                                           [2706458]
                                                           This Is Something I
                                                           Never Wanted to Do,
                                                           But I Need Help.....
                                                           1 year ago
                                                         • 
                                                           British Centre for
                                                           Science Education
                                                           Charles Darwin
                                                           through Christian
                                                           spectacles
                                                           1 year ago
                                                         • 
                                                           Cognitive Dissonance
                                                           [GBScree]
                                                           Glenn Beck Video
                                                           Makes a Resurgence
                                                           on Facebook -
                                                           Coincidence? I think
                                                           not!
                                                           1 year ago
                                                         • 
                                                           About.com
                                                           Agnosticism /
                                                           Atheism
                                                           Godless Politics: A
                                                           Political Manifesto
                                                           for Godless Atheists
                                                           1 year ago
                                                         • 
                                                           Freethinker
                                                           Perspective
                                                           [Motivat]
                                                           "Facts Don't Matter"
                                                           1 year ago
                                                         • 
                                                           Evolving Thoughts
                                                            
                                                           3 years ago
                                                         • 
                                                           The Skeptic Mind
                                                           Blasphemy law in
                                                           Islam
                                                           3 years ago

                                                       Show 25 Show All
                                                       ●

More Ads

Amazon.com Widgets
●
Amazon.com Widgets
●
Web Analytics

Clicky

●
All posts (C) Rosa Rubicondior unless otherwise stated. Template images by
luoman. Powered by Blogger.
●
Web Analytics

Clicky

Gremln

