Digital Freethought Blog

Digital Freethought Blog

Search
Primary Menu Skip to content

  • Home
  • Full List of all Articles
  • Larry’s YouTube Channel
  • About the Author
  • Back to DigitalFreethought.com

Search for: [Search]
8n22e_324
Atheism

Coming out of the Atheist closet

Christianity Is Impossible
Catholicism, Christianity, Cost of Beliefs, Counter-Apologetics, Religious
Beliefs, The Bible

22 Questions for Christians

beliefsvstruth
Christianity, Counter-Apologetics, Faith, Religious Beliefs

Examine Your Beliefs

What the Bible COULD have said
Christianity, Religious Beliefs, The Bible

What the Bible COULD have said

December 18, 2015 Larry Rhodes Leave a comment

In your conversation with the loved one that has left your religious fold you
will, in all likelihood, bring up The Bible.

This will probably make little difference to them because, in all honesty, it
really is just an ancient text, written by the preachers of that long-gone age,
which they have considered honestly and were unable to believe it has a
supernatural origin.   There are several other texts that are older than the
Bible (the Odyssey, the Iliad, the Vedic Texts), and quite a few that could
hold more moral truths (Shakespeare).  To claim that it is the original, unique
word of an omnipotent, omniscient deity who only has our welfare in mind, and
is a perfect moral guide to boot, just doesn’t stand up to skeptical scrutiny
of the texts.

If the Bible really were the inspired word of an Omniscient God, who loved us
and wanted the best for us, would it really have been filled with genocide,
plagues, commandments, threats and acceptable ways beat your slaves?  Rather,
wouldn’t you expect that He would have taken the time to calmly explain the
workings of the world and the universe; and then given you reasons to do the
things that would actually be beneficial to the future of humanity?

Instead of sounding like it was written by a desert war-chief with a
micro-management complex, the bible might have sounded more like this:

Yea, though the Earth seem steady and flat, yet it is a globe which doth turn
fully round once daily.   Look to the North Star to witness the hub of this
turning, extended.

The sun is just another star, only much, much closer to you than the other
stars.

The Earth is spherical and, along with the other planets, circles ‘round the
sun just as the moon circles the earth.

The Earth, moon, planets and stars are all thousands of millions of years old.

It would have just taken God a few sentences to lay out the foundation of
Modern Astronomy.  Instead, many a good man, like Galileo and Copernicus, were
persecuted as Heretics by the Church.  Giordano Bruno was put to death for the
blasphemy of suggesting that the Earth revolves around the sun.  This was done
by the very people who supposedly had God whispering truths into their ears.

The Bible could have said:

Explore the earth.  Have no fear of falling off of it, as it is round and
everything on it is pulled toward its center by a force of nature that I will
call “Gravity”. Yay, it is the same force that holds the plate upon the table,
and keeps the planets bound to the Sun.

Travel and experiment, and record your results so that you may build a body of
knowledge of the world that will benefit those generations which follow.

Since the earth is a sphere, traveling south will reveal stars unknown to you
in your native lands.

Deep in the soil may be found signs of beasts which lived long ago, but exist
no longer.  The patient earth has turned their bones to rock.  Indeed, the
deeper you dig the farther back in time the bones will be from. The very
history of the Earth may be learned by examining deeply within it.    There,
you will witness how plants and animals have changed over many generations.

Right there He could have given us the basics of understanding evolution.  Even
if He didn’t give us all the facts, he could have shown us where to start
looking, and how to begin to understand what we found.

The Bible could have said:

There are many lands and peoples on this earth that differ greatly from
you.  Treat them with kindness, and do not consider them beneath you simply
because they are strange to you, for they are my children too.        

Thou shalt NOT keep another human being as property.  It is as wrong as murder,
as it steals a life, from its true owner.  Abolish slavery wherever you may
find it.

With these few short sentences, he could have saved thousands, if not millions
of lives from brutality, hardship, family separation and death.  But the God of
the Bible actually endorsed Slavery. Telling his people who to enslave, how
much to charge for selling their daughters into slavery, and even details how
to mark them as slaves.           

The Bible could have said:

The LAND thou livest on is thine by agreement with other people.  I DO NOT
assign thee any land.  If thou kill a people to take their land from them, thou
art guilty of murder and theft, not Righteousness.

Those sentences could have saved the world endless wars over the Holy
Lands.  The Middle East could have been a region of peaceful co-existence,
instead of an area of continuous war as it is today.  Instead, the God of the
Bible, in his role as real estate agent, actually tells his flock to slaughter
whole populations in order to take their lands from them.

The Bible could have said:

Witches and Sorcerers do NOT exist.  No human has magical powers.  Only your
God has such powers.

How many lives would this sentence have saved?  How many people have been
tortured, maimed and killed on the pronouncement of their neighbor that they
were a witch?  Instead the Bible positively tells its people that Witches
exist, and commands us to kill them when we find them.  Christian missionaries
are still perpetuating this infamy on women and children in Africa today.  The
Ugandan government has recently passed laws that order the death penalty for
homosexuals due to the teachings found in the Bible and spread by Christian
Missionaries.

The Bible could have said:

There are NO demons.  Those humans who are afflicted in the mind, are sick,
naturally sick, and are not to be feared, other than from the harm they may do
naturally.

How many people have been put to death because they were deemed to be possessed
by demons?  Even today, in modern American society, people are being hurt, and
in some cases killed, in the process of Exorcism.  The Catholic Church itself,
supposedly an “enlightened” religious entity, routinely performs exorcisms, and
indeed still employs specialists in it.

The Bible could have said:

ALL human beings are my children, no matter what sex, color, or how they choose
to acknowledge me, or indeed, IF they choose to acknowledge me or not.   I am a
perfect being; therefore I do not care for adoration or worship.  All people,
Men and Women, must be given equality under the law.

With one word from God, He could have established the equality of the sexes,
and outlawed racism.  Think of it, who benefits more from adoration and
worship?  A perfect being, or the priests and preachers of a particular
religion who claim to represent Him?

The Bible could have said:

When you receive a wound, or cut, pour distilled alcohol onto it, else it
starts to fester and spoil due to extremely small plants and animals, which I
will call “germs”, infesting it.

These germs are indeed so tiny that they cannot be seen by the sharpest eye,
but their effects on flesh and food can be terrible, and easily observed.

To prevent these harmful effects, wash thyself regularly; hands and face most
often.  Care for thy sick.  Physicians, wash your hands after seeing each
patient lest the germs from one patient be carried to the next.

One day, your experiments and inventions will allow you to see these very small
organisms.

God could have laid the ground for us to understand the Germ Theory of
Disease.  In just the Civil War alone, hundreds of thousands of people could
have been spared excruciating pain, suffering and death if the surgeons had
just washed their hands between surgeries.

The Bible could have said:

Before eating, be sure to clean your hands, and eating tools, thoroughly, lest
these germs find their way into your body by your food and cause disease.

By slow and steady cooking, food and water may be safe from these tiny
parasites which dwell therein. Milk too, may be made safe in this way.  Seven
times seventy beats of your heart are sufficient in duration for boiling to be
effective.

Thou canst eat pork, sheep and shellfish whenever thou likest, just cook it
well first.  Moreover, thou shalt cook all thy meat and fish well, until
thou mayest develop deep understanding of germs and parasites.

God could have given us the basis for proper nutrition.  Instead, He forbade
the ingestion of Pork, Shrimp and Lobster.  How many people had to suffer
hunger and malnutrition when a ready food supply may have been nearby?

The Bible could have said:

I will not curse thee with diseases, for I love thee.  Diseases are caused by
germs and malnutrition, and maybe fought with the right diet, or by using herbs
and renderings from some plants.  Physicians, experiment with these things to
find effective cures.

I will NOT send flood or storm against thee, for I love thee.  These are caused
by the natural heating and cooling of the Earth’s airs.  Not by your loving
God.

How many Shaman, Imams, and preachers have ascribed diseases and other natural
events to their gods in order to insure obedience to their wishes?  And they
are still doing it today (aren’t you Pat Roberson?)

How many virgins were sacrificed at the hands of some Witch-Doctor because
people were afraid that their god would do something to their people if the
sacrifice was not made?

The Bible could have said:

Stop mutilating your genitals, especially those of thy helpless babies and
children.  This is disrespectful, harmful, and can cause germs to enter the
body by those cuts.

How many children have died as a direct result of this?  And why would an All
Powerful, Omniscient Creator of the Universe care about who has a tiny piece of
flesh on their body, and who doesn’t?  And remember, He supposedly put it there
in the first place.

The Bible could have said:

Afford to each other those rights which you would have for yourself.  Do not
kill or harm another, as you would not want to be killed or harmed
yourself.  As I love you, and do not harm or kill you, you should not harm or
kill others.

All life on Earth is related to you in the most profound way.  Treat your
planet with the greatest respect.  It sustains you and it will be a very long
time, if ever, that you will find another one like it.

As your populations grow, in the millennia that follow, you must develop the
skills needed to find, and move to, other Earths.  Do this as quickly as you
are able, for your planet is fragile, and is exposed to many dangers.

With these lines, God could have laid the groundwork for a respect for ALL
life.  And he would have given us a warning, nay a dictate, to begin the
preparation to move off the earth.  HE would have known that the population of
Earth would rapidly reach critical-mass.  And with that much of a warning, and
without the Church fighting science at every opportunity, we might actually
have reached other planets in the millennia since the Bible was written.

The Bible could have said:

Treat ALL people, and indeed all life, with kindness, compassion and respect
for I have made you in my image, whole and unspoiled.  You will be judged for
your actions, NOT for your ability to believe the unbelievable.

No matter how much religious people claim that “being good” is the basis for
getting into Heaven, the actual criteria laid out in the Bible is belief
.  Believe in Jesus, and accept him as your savior, and you’re in. Doing bad
stuff?  No problem!  You’re forgiven!  Just believe!

The Bible could have said:

I do NOT appoint leaders, and NO Priests or Shaman knows my secrets.  Do not
humble yourselves to those who claim knowledge of me.

With these lines, God could have ended the practice of Charlatans taking money
from the old and infirm, or indeed from anybody, in the name of God.

The Bible could have said:

And finally, since the information herein is so extremely important, I will
make this book indestructible and available to every person on the planet, in
their language, free.   And for those who cannot read, I will have it speak to
them in their native tongue.

I will not allow it to be misinterpreted or misrepresented so I will
simultaneously update all copies from time to time as your understanding grows,
for it is well within my power to do so.

That last paragraph would be an end to Holy wars, AND Atheism.  Here would be
ample proof of the existence, presence and power of an all-mighty being.

And the Bible could have ended with:

Now go forth, and help prepare each new generation to be healthier, kinder,
wiser and more knowledgeable than the last.

With Infinite Love, God

In other words: Be excellent to each other! 

Now this, would be a book that actually does reflect an Omnibenevolent being!

I’m sure you could think of dozens of additional things that COULD have been in
the Bible.  Many examples should spring readily to mind knowing what we know
now about the natural world around us and what a supposedly omniscient loving
God COULD have told us.

Now, compare what you have just read to the many barbaric laws, punishments,
and commandments found in the Bible, especially those found in Deuteronomy and
Leviticus.  Or indeed, compare this with the teachings of ANY “Holy Book”.

ChristianityGodThe Bible

Posts navigation

1 2 … 62 Next →

Read the eBook by the Site Author!

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Now available in PaperBack, click here: CreateSpace, just $11.99 
[BookCoverImage].

Categories

  • Agnosticism
  • Apologetics
  • Atheism
  • Catholicism
  • Christianity
  • Church-State Separation
  • Cost of Beliefs
  • Counter-Apologetics
  • Creationism
  • Deconversion
  • Evidence
  • Evolution
  • Faith
  • Forgiveness
  • Founding Fathers
  • Heaven and Hell
  • Islam
  • Miracles
  • Morality
  • Personal
  • Purpose
  • Religious Beliefs
  • Science
  • Skepticism
  • The Bible

Tags – Click to view associated articles

Apologetics Atheism Big Bang Catholicism Chaplains Chrisitanity Christianity
Church-State Separation Contradictions Cost of Beliefs Creationism deconversion
Deconversion Story Evidence Evolution Examine Beliefs Faith Featured
Forgiveness Founding Fathers God Heaven and Hell Islam Military Miracles Proof
of God Religious Beliefs religious claims Science Skepticism Supernatural
testability The Bible

Webmaster: Larry S. Rhodes

Search for: [Search]
Recently Posted Articles

  • Bible-Moral CompassWhat the Bible COULD have said
  • Preachers&LawyersWhy would you ask a preacher about atheists?
  • Shermer Claims2Let’s have some testable claims for a change
  • Church State Separation MadisonWhen a government office votes to have
    prayers
  • FaithInBooksGod is not an Answer. It’s a thousand more questions.
  • lee strobels - the case for christChristianity: How good is the evidence?
  • movemountainEquivocation and Obfuscation: The Tools of Apologists
  • EinsteinsGodHijacking Einstein & Lying for Religion
  • Souls aren't realLetter to Editor asks for Prayers for Atheists Society of
    Knoxville
  • Forgiven2Atheists can`t go to Jesus for forgiveness
  • (RNS1-july19) Jason Heap, who is applying to be the first humanist chaplain
    in the military. For use with RNS-HUMNIST-CHAPLAIN, transmitted on July 18,
    2013, Photo courtesy Jason Heap.A Military Humanist Chaplaincy is Needed
  • Forgiveness can mean silence for the victim, and escape from liability for
    the abuser
  • 8n22e_324Coming out of the Atheist closet
  • soulhasweightAddressing Dr. MacDougall’s ‘soul has weight’ experiment
  • Ridicule-MarkTwainThe case for using ridicule in arguments with believers

Archives

  • December 2015
  • November 2015
  • September 2015
  • July 2015
  • June 2015
  • May 2015
  • November 2014
  • August 2014
  • March 2014
  • February 2014
  • December 2013
  • November 2013

Recent Comments

  • Nadine Meadows on Feelings are not facts
  • Nadine Meadows on Forgiveness can mean silence for the victim, and escape
    from liability for the abuser
  • Larry Rhodes on Answering the “They wouldn’t die for a lie” apologetic
  • Larry Rhodes on Answering the “They wouldn’t die for a lie” apologetic
  • Freya on Answering the “They wouldn’t die for a lie” apologetic

Meta

  • Log in
  • Entries RSS
  • Comments RSS
  • WordPress.org

Main Menu

  • Home
  • Full List of all Articles
  • Larry’s YouTube Channel
  • About the Author
  • Back to DigitalFreethought.com

826 spam blocked by Akismet
Proudly powered by WordPress
