skip to main | skip to sidebar

The Lippard Blog

Friday, January 01, 2016

Books read in 2015

Not much blogging going on here lately, but here's my annual list of books read
for 2015:

  • George A. Akerlof and Robert J. Shiller, Phishing for Phools: The Economics
    of Manipulation & Deception
  • Jeffrey S Bardin, The Illusion of Due Diligence: Notes from the CISO
    Underground
  • Bill Browder, Red Notice: A True Story of High Finance, Murder, and One
    Man's Fight for Justice
  • Ron Chernow, Alexander Hamilton
  • Gabriella Coleman, Hacker, Hoaxer, Whistleblower, Spy: The Many Faces of
    Anonymous
  • Laura DeNardis, The Global War for Internet Governance
  • Daniel C. Dennett and Linda LaScola, Caught in the Pulpit: Leaving Belief
    Behind
  • Mary Douglas and Aaron Wildavsky, Risk and Culture: An Essay on the
    Selection of Technological and Environmental Dangers
  • William J. Drake and Monroe Price, editors, Internet Governance: The
    NETmundial Roadmap
  • Jon Friedman and Mark Bouchard, Definitive Guide to Cyber Threat
    Intelligence
  • Marc Goodman, Future Crimes: Everything is Connected, Everyone is
    Vulnerable, and What We Can Do About It
  • Marc Hallet, A Critical Appraisal of George Adamski: The Man Who Spoke to
    the Space Brothers
  • Shane Harris, @War: The Rise of the Military-Internet Complex
  • Peter T. Leeson, The Invisible Hook: The Hidden Economics of Pirates
  • Reed Massengill, Becoming American Express: 150 Years of Reinvention and
    Customer Service
  • James Andrew Miller and Tom Shales, Live From New York: The Complete,
    Uncensored History of Saturday Night Live, as Told By Its Stars, Writers,
    and Guests (two new chapters)
  • David T. Moore, Critical Thinking and Intelligence Analysis
  • Richard E. Nisbett, Mindware: Tools for Smart Thinking
  • Tony Ortega, The Unbreakable Miss Lovely: How the Church of Scientology
    Tried to Destroy Paulette Cooper
  • Whitney Phillips, This is Why We Can't Have Nice Things: Mapping the
    Relationship Between Online Trolling and Mainstream Culture
  • Joseph M. Reagle, Jr., Reading the Comments: Likers, Haters, and
    Manipulators at the Bottom of the Web
  • Jon Ronson, Lost at Sea: The Jon Ronson Mysteries
  • Jon Ronson, So You've Been Publicly Shamed
  • Bruce Schneier, Data and Goliath: The Hidden Battles to Collect Your Data
    and Control Your World
  • P.W. Singer and Allan Friedman, Cybersecurity and Cyberwar: What Everyone
    Needs to Know
  • David Skarbek, The Social Order of the Underworld: How Prison Gangs Govern
    the American Penal System
  • Andrei Soldatov and Irina Borogan, The Red Web: The Struggle Between
    Russia's Digital Dictators and the New Online Revolutionaries
  • Philip E. Tetlock and Dan Gardner, Superforecasting: The Art and Science of
    Prediction
  • Richard H. Thaler, Misbehaving: The Making of Behavioral Economics

I made progress on a few other books (first two last year,  next four from
2014, next three from 2013, last two still not finished from 2012--I have
trouble with very long nonfiction e-books):

  • Roger Z. George and James B. Bruce, editors, Analyzing Intelligence:
    Origins, Obstacles, and Innovations
  • John Searle, Making the Social World
  • Peter Gutmann, Engineering Security
  • Andrew Jaquith, Security Metrics: Replacing Fear, Uncertainty, and Doubt
  • Massimo Pigliucci and Maarten Boudry, Philosophy of Pseudoscience:
    Reconsidering the Demarcation Problem
  • Steven Pinker, The Sense of Style: The Thinking Person's Guide to Writing
    in the 21st Century
  • Richard Bejtlich, The Practice of Network Security Monitoring
  • James Grimmelmann, Internet Law: Cases & Problems (v2; v3 is out now)
  • Douglas Hofstadter and Emmanuel Sander, Surfaces and Essences: Analogy as
    the Fuel and Fire of Thinking
  • Mark Dowd, John McDonald, and Justin Schuh, The Art of Software Security
    Assessment: Identifying and Avoiding Software Vulnerabilities
  • Michal Zalewski, The Tangled Web: A Guide to Securing Modern Web
    Applications

Top ten for 2015:  Browder, Chernow, Coleman, Ronson (Shamed), Schneier,
Phillips, Nisbett, Ortega, Miller and Shales, Thaler. I bought and read
Bardin's book because Richard Bejtlich identified it as a "train wreck," and it
was.

(Previously: 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005.)

Posted by Jim Lippard at 1/01/2016 10:40:00 AM 2 comments ● Links to this post

Labels: books

Monday, November 23, 2015

A few thoughts on OpenBSD 5.8

I've been using OpenBSD since way back at release 2.3 in 1998, so I've gone
through upgrades that took a fair amount of work due to incompatible changes,
like the switch from ipf to pf for host firewalling or the change to ELF
binaries. The upgrade from 5.7 to 5.8 was a pretty smooth and easy one, for the
most part. The two most painful changes for me were the replacement of sudo
with doas and the dropping of support in the rc.conf for the pf_rules variable.
 While sudo is still available as a package, I like the idea of reducing attack
surface with a simpler program, so I made the switch. The two things I miss
most about sudo are the ability to authenticate for a period of time and the
ability to have a single config file across a whole set of servers. The former
I'm just living with, the latter I've adjusted to by having a single config
file that has lines commented out depending on which server it's on. I did have
one moment of concern about the quality of doas when it incorrectly reported
the line number on which I had a syntax error in the config file--fortunately,
this was just a failure to increment the line count on continuation lines
(ending with a "\") which is fixed in the -current release.

The removal of the pf_rules variable support from rc.conf was a bigger issue--I
used to just put the default pf.conf rules file in place with each release and
upgrade, and keep my changes in a pf.conf.local file that was specified in the
pf_rules variable. The effect was that from the period after the upgrade until
I noticed the change, my systems were using the default rules and thus more
exposed than they were supposed to be. This wasn't the first time an
incompatible change decreased my level of security--the removal of tcpwrappers
support from SSH was another. I used to use a combination of pf rules and
hosts.allow as additional layers of protection on my SSH access, and had a set
of tools that allowed me to easily add IP addresses to or remove them from my
hosts.allow files. This would have been a layer of defense still in place with
the loss of my pf rules, had it still been in existence. Fortunately, I also
have SSH on a non-standard port and only allow SSH key logins, not user/
password logins, and most of my systems can't be reached on any port without
first making a VPN connection, which requires two-factor authentication.

A minor annoying change that was made in 5.8 was putting the file /var/unbound/
db/root.key into /etc/changelist, so that the file gets checked daily by the
security script. The issue with this is that if you are actually using unbound
with DNSSEC, this file changes daily, though only in the comments. My
"reportnew" log monitoring tool has a feature that allows you to be notified if
files that are expected to change on some periodic schedule do not change, and
that would be more appropriate than getting daily notifications that yes, the
autotrust anchor file has been updated yet again. But what would really be
ideal here would be a check that the non-comment components have not changed.
(Others have also complained about this.)

A final issue I've run into with OpenBSD 5.8 is not a new issue, but it's one
that still hasn't been fixed with pf. That is that pf logs certain traffic
(IGMP in particular) when it matches a rule that does not call for logging.
This appears to be the same issue that was fixed earlier this year in pfsense,
which is derived from an older fork of pf.

Posted by Jim Lippard at 11/23/2015 08:37:00 AM 0 comments ● Links to this post

Labels: OpenBSD, security, technology

Monday, July 20, 2015

Al Seckel exposed

"I believe that we are rapidly transitioning from an Age of Information to an
Age of Misinformation, and in many cases, outright disinformation." -- Al
Seckel, in an interview published on Jeffrey Epstein's website, "Jeffrey
Epstein Talks Perception with Al Seckel"

Mark Oppenheimer's long-awaited exposé on Al Seckel, "The Illusionist," has now
been published and I urge all skeptics to read it. Seckel, the former head of
the Southern California Skeptics and a CSICOP Scientific and Technical
Consultant who was listed as a "physicist" in every issue of the Skeptical
Inquirer from vol. 11, no. 2 (Winter 1987-88) to vol. 15, no. 2 (Winter 1991)
despite having no degree in physics, has long been known among skeptical
insiders as a person who was misrepresenting himself and taking advantage of
others. Most have remained silent over fear of litigation, which Seckel has
engaged in successfully in the past.

An example of a legal threat from Seckel is this email he sent to me on May 27,
2014:

    Dear Jim,

    News has once again reached me that you are acting as Tom McIver's proxy in
    spreading misinformation and disinformation about me. Please be aware that
    I sued McIver in a Court of Law for Defamation and Slander, and after a
    very lengthy discovery process, which involved showing that he fabricated
    letters from my old professors (who provided notarized statements that they
    did not ever state nor write the letters that McIver circulated, and the
    various treasures who were in control of the financial books of the
    skeptics, also came forth and testified that no money was taken, and McIver
    was unable to prove any of his allegations. The presiding Judge stated that
    this was the "worst case of slander and defamation" that he had ever seen.

    Nevertheless, even with such a Court Order he is persisting, and using (and
    I mean the term "using") you to further propagate erroneous misinformation.
    Lately, he has been making his defamatory comments again various people,
    and posting links to a news release article by the Courthouse News (a press
    release service) that reports the allegations set forth in complaints. Just
    because something is "alleged" does not mean it is True. It has to be
    proven in a Court of Law. In this case, after a lengthy discovery process
    (and I keep excellent records) the opposite of what was alleged was
    discovered, and the opposing counsel "amicably" dismissed their charges
    against me. The case was officially dismissed. In fact, the opposing
    counsel has been active in trying to get the Courthouse News to actively
    remove the entire article, and not just add a footnote at the end.

    I note that you have been trying to add this link to my wikipedia page. I
    have never met you, and am not interested in fighting with you. I am
    attaching the official Court document that this case was filed for
    dismissal by the opposing counsel. You can verify yourself that this is an
    accurate document with the Court. So, once again, McIver has used you.
    My attorneys are now preparing a Criminal Complaint against McIver for so
    openly violating the Court Order (it is now a criminal offense), and will
    once again open the floodgates of a slander and defamation lawsuit against
    him and his family, and anyone else, who aids him willing in this process.
    This time he will not have his insurance company cover his defense. This
    time that axe will come down hard on him.

    For now, I will just think you are victim, but please remove any and all
    references to me on any of your websites, and that will be the end of it.
    You don't want to be caught in the crossfire.

    Yours sincerely,
    Al Seckel
    --
    Al Seckel
    Cognitive neuroscientist, author, speaker

Contrary to what Seckel writes, we have, in fact, met--I believe it was during
the CSICOP conference, April 3-4, 1987, in Pasadena, California.  I am not an
agent of Tom McIver, the anthropologist, librarian, and author of the wonderful
reference book cataloging anti-evolution materials, Anti-Evolution, who Seckel
sued for defamation in 2007, in a case that was settled out of court (see
Oppenheimer's article). I have never met Tom McIver, though I hope I will be
able to do so someday--he seems to me to be a man of good character, integrity,
and honesty.

The news release Seckel mentions is regarding a lawsuit filed by Ensign
Consulting Ltd. in 2011 against Seckel charging him with fraud, which is
summarized online on the Courthouse News Service website. I wrote a brief
account of the case based on that news article on Seckel's Wikipedia page in an
edit on March 13, 2011, but it was deleted by another editor in less than an
hour.  Seckel is correct that just because something is alleged does not mean
that it is true; my summary was clear that these were accusations made in a
legal filing.

Seckel and his wife, Isabel Maxwell (daughter of the deceased British-Czech
media mogul, Robert Maxwell), rather than fighting the suit or showing up for
depositions, filed for bankruptcy.  Ensign filed a motion in their bankruptcy
case on December 2, 2011, repeating the fraud allegations.  But as Seckel
notes, Ensign did dismiss their case in 2014 prior to his sending me the above
email.

So why should anyone care?  Who is Al Seckel, and what was he worried that I
might be saying about him? This is mostly answered by the Oppenheimer article,
but there is quite a bit more that could be said, and more than what I will say
here to complement "The Illusionist."

Al Seckel was the founder and executive director of the Southern California
Skeptics, a Los Angeles area skeptics group that met at Caltech.  This was one
of the earliest local skeptical groups, with a large membership and prominent
scientists on its advisory board.  Seckel has published numerous works
including editing two collections of Bertrand Russell's writings for Prometheus
Books (both reviewed negatively in the Journal of Bertrand Russell Studies, see
here and here).  He has given a TED talk on optical illusions and authored a
book with the interesting title, Masters of Deception, which has a forward by
Douglas R. Hofstadter.  Seckel was an undergraduate at Cornell University, and
developed an association with a couple of cognitive psychology labs at
Caltech--in 1998 the New York Times referred to him as a "research associate at
the Shimojo Psychophysics Laboratory." His author bios have described him as
author of the monthly Neuroquest column at Discover magazine ("About the
Author" on Masters of Deception; Seckel has never written that column), as "a
physicist and molecular biologist" (first page of Seckel's contribution, "A New
Age of Obfuscation and Manipulation" in Robert Basil, editor, Not Necessarily
the New Age, 1988, Prometheus Books, pp. 386-395; Seckel is neither a physicist
nor a molecular biologist), and, in his TED talk bio, as having left Caltech to
continue his work "in spatial imagery with psychology researchers as Harvard"
(see Oppenheimer's exchanges with Kosslyn, who has never met or spoken with him
and Ganis, who says he has exchanged email with him but not worked with him).

At Cornell, Seckel associated with L. Pearce Williams, a professor of history
of science, who had interesting things to say when McIver asked him about their
relationship. While in at least one conference bio, Seckel is listed as having
been Carl Sagan's teaching assistant, I do not believe that was the case. The
Cornell registrar reported in 1991 in response to a query from Pat Linse that
Seckel only attended for two semesters and a summer session, though a few
places on the web list him as a Cornell alumnus.

Seckel used to hang out at Caltech with Richard Feynman. As the late Helen Tuck
, Feyman's administrative assistant, wrote in 1991, Seckel "latched on to
Feynman like a leach [sic]." Tuck wrote that she became suspicious of Seckel,
and contacted Cornell to find that he did not have a degree from that
institution. You can see her full letter, written in response to a query from
Tom McIver, here.

As the head of the Southern California Skeptics, Seckel managed to get a column
in the Los Angeles Times, titled "Skeptical Eye." Most of his columns were at
least partially plagiarized from the work of others, including his column on
Sunny the counting dalmation (plagiarized from Robert Sheaffer), his column on
tabloid psychics' predictions for 1987 (also plagiarized from Sheaffer), and
his column about Martin Reiser's tests of psychic detectives (plagiarized
directly from Reiser's work). When Seckel plagiarized Sheaffer, it was brought
to the attention of Kent Harker, editor of the Bay Area Skeptics Information
Sheet (BASIS), who contacted Seckel about it. Seckel apparently told Harker
that Sheaffer had given his permission to allow publication of his work under
Seckel's name, which Sheaffer denied when Harker asked. This led to Harker
writing to Seckel in 1988 to tell him about Sheaffer's denial, and and inform
him that he, Seckel, was no longer welcome to reprint any material from BASIS
in LASER, the Southern California Skeptics' newsletter. While most skeptical
groups gave each other blanket permission to reprint each others' material with
attribution, Harker explicitly retracted this permission for Seckel.

This is, I think, a good case study in how the problem of "affiliate
fraud"--being taken in by deception by a member of a group you self-identify
with--can be possible for skeptics, scientists, and other educated people, just
as it is for the more commonly publicized cases of affiliate fraud within
religious organizations.

This just scratches the surface of the Seckel story. I hope that those who have
been fearful of litigation from Seckel will realize that, given the Oppenheimer
story, now is an opportune time for multiple people to come forward and offer
each other mutual support that was unhappily unavailable for Tom McIver eight
years ago.

(BTW, one apparent error in the Oppenheimer piece--I am unaware of Richard
Feynman lending his name for use by a skeptical group. He was never, for
example, a CSICOP Fellow, though I'm sure they asked him just as they asked
Murray Gell-Mann, who has been listed as a CSICOP Fellow since Skeptical
Inquirer vol. 9, no. 3, Spring 1985.)

"Oh, like everyone else, I used to parrot, and on occasion, still do." -- Al
Seckel (interview with Jeffrey Epstein)

Corrected 22 July 2015--original mistakenly said Maxwell was Australian.

Update 22 September 2015--an obituary has been published for Al Seckel, stating
that he died in France on an unspecified date earlier this year, but there are
as yet no online French death records nor French news stories reporting his
death. The obituary largely mirrors content put up on alseckel.net, a domain
that was registered on September 18 by a user using Perfect Privacy LLC
(domaindiscreet.com) to hide their information. (That in itself is not
suspicious, it is generally a good practice for individuals who own domain
names to protect their privacy with such mechanisms and I do it myself.)

Update 24 September 2015: French police, via the U.S. consulate, confirmed the
death of Al Seckel on July 1, 2015. His body was found at the bottom of a cliff
in the village of Saint-Cirq-Lapopie.

Update 21 December 2015: A timeline of Al Seckel's activities may be found here
.

Posted by Jim Lippard at 7/20/2015 03:14:00 PM 4 comments ● Links to this post

Labels: Al Seckel, books, ethics, history, hoaxes, law, mind and brain, science
, skepticism, Southern California Skeptics

Thursday, January 01, 2015

Books read in 2014

Not much blogging going on here lately, but here's my annual list of books read
for 2014:

  • James Altucher, The Choose Yourself Stories
  • Nate Anderson, The Internet Police: How Crime Went Online, and the Cops
    Followed
  • David V. Barrett, A Brief History of Secret Societies: An Unbiased History
    of Our Desire for Secret Knowledge
  • Peter Burke, A Social History of Knowledge, vol. 2, From the Encyclopedie
    to Wikipedia
  • Danielle Keats Citron, Hate Crimes in Cyberspace
  • Harry Collins, Are We All Scientific Experts Now?
  • Christopher Hitchens, Hitch 22
  • Christopher Hitchens, Mortality
  • Bruce E. Hunsberger and Bob Altemeyer, Atheists: A Groundbreaking Study of
    America's Nonbelievers
  • Walter Isaacson, Steve Jobs
  • Brian Krebs, Spam Nation: The Inside Story of Organized Cybercrime--From
    Global Epidemic to Your Front Door
  • Kembrew McLeod, Pranksters: Making Mischief in the Modern World
  • China Miéville, The City and the City
  • Roger Pielke, Jr., The Climate Fix: What Scientists and Politicians Won't
    Tell You About Global Warming
  • Michael Sacasas, The Tourist and the Pilgrim: Essays on Life and Technology
    in the Digital Age
  • Oliver Sacks, Uncle Tungsten: Memories of a Chemical Boyhood
  • James C. Scott, Seeing Like a State: How Certain Schemes to Improve the
    Human Condition Have Failed
  • Karen Stollznow, God Bless America: Strange and Unusual Religious Beliefs
    and Practices in the United States
  • Daniel Suarez, Daemon
  • Daniel Suarez, Freedom
  • Nassim Nicholas Taleb, Antifragile
  • Sabrina Verney, XTUL: An Experience of The Process
  • Timothy Wyllie, Love Sex Fear Death: The Inside Story of the Process Church
    of the Final Judgment
  • Kim Zetter, Countdown to Zero Day: Stuxnet and the Launch of the World's
    First Digital Weapon

I made progress on a few other books (first five this year, next four from last
year, last two still not finished from two years ago):

  • Gabriella Coleman, Hacker, Hoaxer, Whistleblower, Spy: The Many Faces of
    Anonymous
  • Peter Gutmann, Engineering Security
  • Andrew Jaquith, Security Metrics: Replacing Fear, Uncertainty, and Doubt
  • Massimo Pigliucci and Maarten Boudry, Philosophy of Pseudoscience:
    Reconsidering the Demarcation Problem
  • Steven Pinker, The Sense of Style: The Thinking Person's Guide to Writing
    in the 21st Century
  • Richard Bejtlich, The Practice of Network Security Monitoring
  • Mary Douglas and Aaron Wildavsky, Risk and Culture: An Essay on the
    Selection of Technological and Environmental Dangers
  • James Grimmelmann, Internet Law: Cases & Problems (v2; v3 is out now)
  • Douglas Hofstadter and Emmanuel Sander, Surfaces and Essences: Analogy as
    the Fuel and Fire of Thinking
  • Mark Dowd, John McDonald, and Justin Schuh, The Art of Software Security
    Assessment: Identifying and Avoiding Software Vulnerabilities
  • Michal Zalewski, The Tangled Web: A Guide to Securing Modern Web
    Applications

Top ten for 2014:  Sacks, Miéville, Isaacson, Hitchens (both), Wyllie, Zetter,
Collins, Pielke Jr., Pigliucci and Boudry.

(Previously: 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005.)

Posted by Jim Lippard at 1/01/2015 07:00:00 AM 1 comments ● Links to this post

Labels: books

Tuesday, October 14, 2014

Summary of 1994 CSICOP conference

I just stumbled across an old Usenet post of mine which summarizes a small part
of the CSICOP conference held in Seattle June 23-26, 1994 (PDF of conference
program; PDF of conference announcement mailing) with Robert Sheaffer's reply.
I don't recall if I wrote the further followups, and didn't find any in a brief
search. My 1992 Dallas CSICOP conference summary and a number of others may be
found at the Index of Conference Summaries on this blog.


Path: bga.com!news.sprintlink.net!hookup!yeshua.marcam.com!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!nic-nac.CSU.net!news.Cerritos.edu!news.Arizona.EDU!skyblu.ccit.arizona.edu!lippard
From: lip...@skyblu.ccit.arizona.edu (James J. Lippard)
Newsgroups: sci.skeptic
Subject: Re: News of the CSICOP conference?
Date: 11 Jul 1994 15:59 MST
Organization: University of Arizona
Lines: 110
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <11JUL199415590395@skyblu.ccit.arizona.edu>
References: <forb0004.229.0036889A@gold.tc.umn.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: skyblu.ccit.arizona.edu
News-Software: VAX/VMS VNEWS 1.41

In article <forb0004.2...@gold.tc.umn.edu>, forb...@gold.tc.umn.edu (Eric J. Forbis) writes...
>I'm surprised that so little has been written about the recent conference on
>this group. Please, any who attended, tell all!

I had intended to write up a summary of the Seattle conference similar
to the one I did for the 1992 Dallas conference (which may be found
in /pub/anson/Arizona_Skeptic on netcom.com, in vol. 6 somewhere, over
two issues).  Events conspired against me, however.  My flight did
not arrive until the conference had already begun on Thursday night,
and I was quite disappointed to miss Robert Baker's presentation in the
session on alien abductions.  I also brought only an old school notebook,
which I found contained only two blank sheets of paper in it.  Then I
planned to view Becky Long's videotapes of the sessions afterward, but
her camera's battery recharger broke.  So the following is all from memory.

I arrived at the conference on Thursday evening and was surprised to
find that the main conference room was completely full and an overflow
crowd was watching via closed-circuit television.  This was the largest
CSICOP conference to date.  I believe that for the alien abduction and
False Memory Syndrome-related sessions there were over 700 attendees.
(I seem to remember somebody telling me that, but we know how unreliable
human memory is.)
   I showed up in the middle of a presentation by Thomas Bullard, who was
very impressed by what he claimed were amazing consistencies between
the accounts of abductees.  He argued against the claim (made by Baker?)
that the motifs in abduction stories can be traced to "Close Encounters
of the Third Kind" by pointing out the same motifs in earlier abduction
claims.  (Yeah, but what about earlier appearances of "Grey"-like aliens in
other science fiction?)
   Next, John Mack spoke about why he was speaking at a CSICOP conference
and discussed the "intense polarization in ufology" between skeptics and
believers.  He said that he was a skeptic about UFO abductions and that
he considers it to be an unsolved mystery.  At times he sounded like
John Keel or Jacques Vallee--suggesting that aliens are interdimensional
creatures that can't be reduced to any known categories of human thought.
Like Bullard, he appealed to the consistency between testimonies.
I wrote down a series of questions he had for CSICOP and skeptics:

   1. Why so much vehemence in these attacks? [on him, on abduction claims]
   2. Why so much certainty?
   3. Why do we attack the experiencers themselves?
   4. Why do you attack writers of your own commissioned reports who
      don't come up with the conclusions you want?

I have no idea what the last question is supposed to be referring to,
since CSICOP does not commission research.  It sounds like a question
more appropriately addressed to MUFON regarding its treatment of
investigators of the Gulf Breeze UFO sightings.

   Since Nicholas Spanos died tragically in an airplane crash just a
week or so before the conference, at the last minute clinical psychologist
William Cone from Newport Beach, Calif. was brought in.  (He was already
a conference attendee.)  He began by saying that he didn't bring any
slides, but if the whole audience would just look at the screen, research
shows that about 2% of us would see things on it anyway.  Cone said that
he has worked with a few dozen abductees, including some in locked wards
of mental institutions.  He argued that abduction research that he has seen
is very badly done, with the researchers imposing their views on their
subjects.  He offered a number of possible answers to the question "Why
would anyone make up stories like this?":  (1) for the money (he gave
a specific example from his own experience), (2) for notoriety and
attention (he said that he's had abductees tell him they had never told anyone
about their experience before, and then show up on a tabloid TV show a
week later), (3) for identity with a group of people.
   He seemed to rebut most of the claims made by Bullard and Mack about
abductees.

   Also added to the program was abductee and hypnotherapist Sharon
Phillip (?), who was brought in by Mack.  She described her own
UFO sighting/abduction and promoted the usefulness of hypnotherapy.

   Also present was Donna Bassett, who passed herself off as an abductee
in Mack's group and then went public in the _Time_ magazine article
about Mack.  She stated that, just as women have been doing for
centuries, she faked it.  She had very strong words of criticism for
Mack's methodology and claimed that his clients are telling Mack what
he wants to hear, but say other things behind his back.  She accused him
of not getting informed consent from his clients about what they are
getting into.

   Mack replied by saying that he could not discuss her case because
of confidentiality, but that he was not convinced that she *wasn't*
really an abductee.  (He implied that he had reasons for thinking
this that he was not at liberty to discuss.)  He flat out denied
parts of her story, such as the part about his breaking her bed
while sitting on it from his enthusiastic reaction to her story about
being on a UFO with JFK and Kruschev.  He also suggested that Phil
Klass had put her up to her hoax, since her husband had worked with
Klass at _Aviation Week_.  This prompted the biggest outburst of
anger that I witnessed at the conference, from Klass, who stated that
he had not seen the Bassetts for many years and heard about the hoax
in the media like everybody else.  He subsequently contacted them,
and was responsible for Donna Bassett's being invited to the CSICOP
conference.

   There followed a series of audience questions and answers, including
several which expressed concern about Bassett being brought into the
conference without Mack's knowledge.  Some of these concerned audience
members changed their minds when told that Mack was already well aware
of the specifics of Donna Bassett's charges as a result of the _Time_
story.

Well, that was Thursday, June 23.  I'll comment further later about
the two Friday sessions and Carl Sagan's keynote address,
the three Saturday sessions and the luncheon talk about CSICOP and
the Law, and the Sunday session--or perhaps others can jump in.

Jim Lippard               _Skeptic_ magazine:
lip...@ccit.arizona.edu  ftp://ftp.rtd.com/pub/zines/skeptic/
Tucson, Arizona           http://www.rtd.com/~lippard/skeptics-society.html

Newsgroups: sci.skeptic
Path: bga.com!news.sprintlink.net!hookup!yeshua.marcam.com!MathWorks.Com!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!usc!nic-nac.CSU.net!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!csusac!csus.edu!netcom.com!sheaffer
From: shea...@netcom.com (Robert Sheaffer)
Subject: Re: News of the CSICOP conference?
Message-ID: <sheafferCsy5EI.n1t@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 261-4700 guest)
References: <forb0004.229.0036889A@gold.tc.umn.edu> <11JUL199415590395@skyblu.ccit.arizona.edu> <Jul13.044226.32392@acs.ucalgary.ca>
Date: Thu, 14 Jul 1994 20:11:05 GMT
Lines: 31

>In article <11JUL199...@skyblu.ccit.arizona.edu>,
>James J. Lippard <lip...@skyblu.ccit.arizona.edu> wrote:
>>   I showed up in the middle of a presentation by Thomas Bullard, who was
>>very impressed by what he claimed were amazing consistencies between
>>the accounts of abductees.  He argued against the claim (made by Baker?)
>>that the motifs in abduction stories can be traced to "Close Encounters
>>of the Third Kind" by pointing out the same motifs in earlier abduction
>>claims.  (Yeah, but what about earlier appearances of "Grey"-like aliens in
>>other science fiction?)

I was going to comment about this at the conference, were it not such a
mob scene that getting to a microphone became nearly impossible:

Bullard was right to object to Baker's statement that 'all these grey
aliens come from the 1977 movie CEIIIK'. (Bullard went on to cite some
pre-1977 examples).

However, Marty Kottmeyer makes a pretty good case tracing the origin of the
_genre_ to Barney Hill who in March 1964 (date from memory: beware FMS)
sketched an alien that had supposedly abducted him. This drawing was
subsequently widely published. Marty found out, however, that an episode
of _The Twilight Zone_ had aired with a nearly-identical alien, just
A FEW DAYS before Barney made his sketch. (The individual sessions with
Dr. Benjamin Simon were all carefully dated and transcribed, and fan
books tell when each _Twilight Zone_ episode first aired.)

--

        Robert Sheaffer - Scepticus Maximus - shea...@netcom.com

 Past Chairman, The Bay Area Skeptics - for whom I speak only when authorized!


        "As women and as lawyers, we must never again shy from raising our
         voices against sexual harrassment. All women who care about
         equality of opportunity - about integrity and morality in the
         workplace - are in Professor Anita Hill's debt."

                     -- Hillary Rodham Clinton, 8/9/92, at an American Bar
                        Association luncheon honoring Anita Hill

        "I want to make it very clear that this middle class tax cut, in
         my view, is central to any attempt we are going to make to have
         a short term economic strategy and a long term fairness
         strategy, which is part of getting this country going again."

                     -- candidate Bill Clinton, ABC News Primary Debate,
                        Manchester, New Hampshire, 1/19/92

Posted by Jim Lippard at 10/14/2014 07:15:00 PM 0 comments ● Links to this post

Labels: CSICOP, history, skepticism, UFOs

Friday, April 25, 2014

Spam email from Christine Jones for governor campaign

I received the following spam email today (a link on the email claims, falsely,
that I opted in for it in October 2013) from the Christine Jones for governor
campaign.  Jones is a former GoDaddy executive who looks like a terrible
candidate for governor of Arizona.

Dear James,

        As a Republican candidate for Governor, I am frequently
asked where I stand on the issues important to our state-issues
ranging from immigration and education to economic development
and healthcare.

        At a recent forum I was asked one of the single-most
important questions that a candidate for political office can
face. The question was, "Where does your moral compass come
from?"
        At three years old, I climbed onto the Sunday School bus
that drove the neighborhood kids to the local evangelical church.

It was there that I learned about God and His Son, Jesus. Since
then, I have let my personal relationship with Him be my moral
compass.
        One of my life phrases is, "Do the right thing because
it's the right thing to do." I am not interested in making
excuses or politicizing important issues. I am interested in
doing things based on conviction and personal belief. As
Governor, I can promise you that I will adhere to my moral
compass.
        If you would like to hear more about my story and why I
am running for Governor, I invite you to join me Tuesday, April
29th, from 6:30-8:00pm at New Life Community Church of the
Nazarene in Show Low. I hope you can make it!

        Best,

        Jones for Governor, Inc . Primary
        PO Box 13087
        Phoenix, AZ 85002-3087, United States
        Paid for by Jones for Governor, Inc.

Posted by Jim Lippard at 4/25/2014 01:37:00 PM 1 comments ● Links to this post

Labels: Arizona, kooks, politics, spam

Wednesday, January 01, 2014

Books read in 2013

Not much blogging going on here lately, but here's my annual list of books read
for 2013:

  • Ross Anderson, Security Engineering: A Guide to Building Dependable
    Distributed Systems (2nd ed)
  • Deborah Blum, Ghost Hunters: William James and the Search for Scientific
    Proof of Life After Death
  • Peter Burke, A Social History of Knowledge: From Gutenberg to Diderot
  • J.C. Carleson, Work Like a Spy: Business Tips from a Former CIA Officer
  • Ronald J. Deibert, Black Code: Inside the Battle for Cyberspace
  • Daniel Dennett, Intuition Pumps and Other Tools for Thinking
  • Cory Doctorow, Homeland
  • Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, The Complete Sherlock Holmes (re-read, thanks to
    free Kindle edition)
  • Roger Ebert, Life Itself: A Memoir
  • John Forester, Novelist & Storyteller: The Life of C.S. Forester, vol. 1 &
    vol. 2
  • Martin Gardner, Undiluted Hocus-Pocus: The Autobiography of Martin Gardner
  • Adam Gorightly, The Prankster and the Conspiracy: The Story of Kerry
    Thornley and How He Met Oswald and Inspired the Counterculture
  • Jason Healey, editor, A Fierce Domain: Conflict in Cyberspace, 1986 to 2012
  • Jenna Miscavige Hill: Beyond Belief: My Secret Life Inside Scientology and
    My Harrowing Escape
  • Daniel Kahneman, Thinking, Fast and Slow
  • Gene Kim, Kevin Behr, and George Spafford, The Phoenix Project: A Novel
    About IT, DevOps, and Helping Your Business Win
  • Dani Kollin and Eytan Kollin, The Unincorporated Man
  • Jon Krakauer, Three Cups of Deceit: How Greg Mortenson, Humanitarian Hero,
    Lost His Way
  • Phil Lapsley, Exploding the Phone: The Untold Story of the Teenagers and
    Outlaws Who Hacked Ma Bell
  • Daniel Loxton and Donald R. Prothero, Abominable Science! Origins of the
    Yeti, Nessie, and Other Famous Cryptids
  • David W. Maurer, The Big Con: The Story of the Confidence Men
  • Philip Metcalfe, Whispering Wires: The Tragic Tale of an American
    Bootlegger
  • Torin Monahan, editor, Surveillance and Security: Technological Politics
    and Power in Everyday Life
  • Dale K. Myers, With Malice: Lee Harvey Oswald and the Murder of Officer
    J.D. Tippit
  • Adam Penenberg, Virtually True
  • Lewis Pinault, Consulting Demons: Inside the Unscrupulous World of
    Corporate Consulting
  • Stephen Pinker, The Better Angels of Our Nature: Why Violence Has Declined
  • Ann Rowe Seaman, America's Most Hated Woman: The Life and Gruesome Death of
    Madalyn Murray O'Hair
  • Karl Sabbagh, Shooting Star: The Brief and Brilliant Life of Frank Ramsey
  • Oliver Sacks, Hallucinations
  • Jim Schnabel, Remote Viewers: The Secret History of America's Psychic Spies
  • Tom Standage, Writing on the Wall: Social Media, The First 2,000 Years
  • Will Storr, Heretics: Adventures with the Enemies of Science
  • John Sweeney, The Church of Fear: Inside the Weird World of Scientology
  • Jesse Walker, The United States of Paranoia: A Conspiracy Theory
  • Lawrence Wright, Going Clear: Scientology, Hollywood, & the Prison of
    Belief

I made progress on a few other books (first three still not finished from last
year):

  • Mark Dowd, John McDonald, and Justin Schuh, The Art of Software Security
    Assessment: Identifying and Avoiding Software Vulnerabilities
  • James C. Scott, Seeing Like a State: How Certain Schemes to Improve the
    Human Condition Have Failed
  • Michal Zalewski, The Tangled Web: A Guide to Securing Modern Web
    Applications
  • Richard Bejtlich, The Practice of Network Security Monitoring
  • Mary Douglas and Aaron Wildavsky, Risk and Culture: An Essay on the
    Selection of Technological and Environmental Dangers
  • James Grimmelmann, Internet Law: Cases & Problems (v2; v3 is out now)
  • Douglas Hofstadter and Emmanuel Sander, Surfaces and Essences: Analogy as
    the Fuel and Fire of Thinking

Top ten for 2013:  Ebert, Kahneman, Wright, Anderson, Pinker, Seaman, Walker,
Sacks, Deibert, Dennett.  Runners Up: Blum, Kim, Miscavige Hill.

(Previously: 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005.)

Posted by Jim Lippard at 1/01/2014 10:06:00 AM 1 comments ● Links to this post

Labels: books

Wednesday, October 30, 2013

How to use Google Authenticator with OpenBSD, OpenSSH, and OpenVPN--and why you
might not want to

I thought that Google Authenticator might be a quick and easy two-factor
authentication solution for VPN access to my personal network, so I did some
Google searches to see if that were so.  I found quite a few sources describing
how to set it up with systems that use Linux Pluggable Authentication Modules
(PAM), but very little about using it with BSD Authentication on OpenBSD.

The most promising link I came across was to an implementation of Google
Authentication for OpenBSD that was last updated in early 2013, based on
Google's PAM code, but I couldn't get it to work.  It compiled and installed,
and the googleauth code for generating a secret (and a very insecure way of
generating a QR code to use to import it into the Google Authenticator
application) worked fine, but I couldn't successfully use it for console login,
OpenSSH login, or OpenVPN login.

I also found the standard OpenBSD port for openvpn_bsdauth, which compiled,
installed, and worked successfully for password authentication by adding these
lines to my OpenVPN configuration:

    script-security 2
    tmp-dir <path to dir writable only by _openvpn user>
    auth-user-pass-verify /usr/local/libexec/openvpn_bsdauth via-file


This also requires that the authenticating user be put into the _openvpnusers
group.

I was unable to get the via-env method to work, however.

I next tried the standard OpenBSD port of login_oath, which implements the OATH
toolkit, which uses the same time-based TOTP protocol that Google Authenticator
uses.  This turned out to do the trick.  Once installed, you create a secret
key that the server authentication will check against and store it in your home
directory (one thing I liked about googleauth is that it stores the shared
secret in a system directory to which the user doesn't have access; better
still is the suggestion of keeping the secrets on an auth server as totp-cgi
does).  The documentation recommends creating the secret (which the user
doesn't need to know except for the initial configuration of the Google
Authenticator client application) by doing:

    openssl rand -hex 20 > ~/.totp-key

I then needed to convert this from hex to base32, which is simple enough to do
with the method the documentation recommends, which is using the perl module
Convert::Base32 (OpenBSD port p5-Convert-Base32) and a short script like:

    #!/usr/bin/perl
    use Convert::Base32;
    open (FILE, "/home/vpnuser/.totp-key");
    $secret = <FILE>;
    close (FILE);
    $code = pack ('H*', $secret);
    print encode_base32($code)."\n";

The resulting code can be manually entered into Google Authenticator.

To use Google Authenticator as a login method, I updated the login class for
the user I wanted to use in /etc/login.conf so that its last two lines were:

    :auth=-totp,passwd:\
    :tc=default:

This allows either Google Authenticator of password authentication at the
console, but only Google Authenticator via OpenSSH or OpenVPN as I configured
them.  Instead of using "-totp" you can also use "-totp-and-pwd" which requires
the entry of both your Google Authenticator code and your password (in that
order, with a slash in between them) in order to authenticate.

For OpenSSH, I added the following lines to my sshd_config:

    Match User <vpnuser>
         PasswordAuthentication yes
         AuthenticationMethods publickey,password:bsdauth

I don't allow password authentication at all for other users; for this user, an
SSH public key must first be used, then Google Authenticator must also be used
before a successful login. [Updated 1 Nov 2013 to add:  After a reboot, this
ssh config failed with a log message of "fatal: auth2_update_methods_lists:
method not in AuthenticationMethods".  Removing the ":bsdauth" made it work
again (it works since the "password" authentication method will use BSD
Authentication by default), but this looks like an SSH bug.]

So why might you not want to do this?  While Google Authenticator ensures that
what is used over the network as a password is better than a typical
user-selected password, it effectively stores a shared secret in plaintext at
both ends of the connection, which is far less secure than SSH public key
authentication.  If the device where Google Authenticator is present gets
compromised, that secret is compromised.  And as the above link about totp-cgi
points out, if you use Google Authenticator with the same secret across
multiple machines, that secret is only as secure as the least secure host it's
stored on, and using different secrets for different machines doesn't scale
very well with the application.  A password safe with randomly generated
passwords, stored in encrypted form, is probably a better solution in most
cases. [Updated 2 November 2013: Authy uses the same TOTP mechanism as Google
Authenticator, but encrypts the secret key on the client side.  That encryption
is really more obfuscation than encryption since the key is based on phone
attributes and can potentially be reverse engineered.]

As I've set it up, I'm still relying on SSH public key authentication for SSH
logins, and on certificate authentication for VPN logins, in addition to Google
Authenticator.  For the case of logging into my VPN from my laptop and having
Google Authenticator on a separate mobile device, it does seem to be a security
improvement (though I welcome anyone to show me that the gains are illusory).

Posted by Jim Lippard at 10/30/2013 05:44:00 PM 1 comments ● Links to this post

Labels: OpenBSD, security, technology

Friday, April 05, 2013

Matt Dillahunty and disbelief by default

In his recent talk at the American Atheist convention on skepticism and atheism
, Matt Dillahunty states (at about five minutes in) that skepticism does tell
us what to believe in the case of untestable claims--that the default position
is disbelief.

But no, the default position has to be nonbelief, not disbelief.  To disbelieve
in a proposition is to believe in the negation of the proposition, to believe
that the original proposition is false.  And Dillahunty already said that (a)
we should proportion our belief to the evidence and that (b) the proposition in
question is untestable, meaning there is no evidence for or against it.

The position he describes is logically inconsistent.

We know that there are untestable propositions that are true.  We shouldn't
believe that they are false simply because they are untestable. We should only
believe they are false if we have good reasons to believe they are false; in
the absence of that we should be agnostic.

(Added 5:36 p.m.: What are the implications for the above argument if it is the
case that untestability does not entail lack of evidence or reasons?  What
about if we distinguish evidential from non-evidential reasons?  And if we take
the latter course, what does that say about proposition (a), above? Left as an
exercise for commenters.)

Posted by Jim Lippard at 4/05/2013 05:08:00 PM 18 comments ● Links to this post

Labels: atheism, rationality, religion, skepticism

Saturday, March 09, 2013

Isaac Funk and the Widow's Mite

One of the more interesting and better documented cases of surprisingly
accurate information from a spirit medium that is described in Deborah Blum's
fascinating book, Ghost Hunters: William James and the Search for Scientific
Proof of Life After Death (2006, Penguin Books), is the case of Isaac Funk and
the Widow's Mite (pp. 260-262).

Funk, of Funk & Wagnall's Dictionary, had been visiting a medium in Brooklyn,
New York in February 1903.  About his third visit, he subsequently described
the following (in Isaac K. Funk, The Widow's Mite and Other Psychic Phenomena
(1904, Funk & Wagnalls), pp. 159-160, now in the public domain due to copyright
expiration):

    About eleven o'clock the control named "George," in his usual strong
    masculine voice, abruptly asked: "Has anyone here got anything that
    belonged to Mr. Beecher?" There was no reply. On his emphatic repetition of
    the question, I replied, being the only one present, as I felt sure, who
    had ever had any immediate acquaintance with Mr. Beecher: "I have in my
    pocket a letter from Rev. Dr. Hillis, Mr. Beecher's successor.  Is that
    what you mean?" 

    The answer was: "No; I am told by a spirit present, John Rakestraw, that
    Mr. Beecher, who is not present, is concerned about an ancient coin, 'The
    Widow's Mite.' This coin is out of its place, and should be returned. It
    has long been away, and Mr. Beecher wishes it returned, and he looks to you
    , doctor, to return it." 

    I was considerably surprised, and asked: "What do you mean by saying that
    he looks to me to return it? I have no coin of Mr. Beecher's!" 

    "I don't know anything about it except that I am told that this coin is out
    of place, and has been for a number of years, and that Mr. Beecher says you
    can find it and return it."
    I remembered then that when we were making "The Standard Dictionary," some
    nine years before, I had borrowed from a gentleman in Brooklyn--a close
    friend of Mr. Beecher's, who died several years ago--a valuable ancient
    coin known as "The Widow's Mite."  He told me that this coin was worth
    hundreds of dollars, and, under promise that I would see that it was
    returned to the collection where it belonged, he would loan it to me. ... 

    I said to the control, "The only 'Widow's Mite' that has ever been in my
    charge was one that I borrowed some years ago from a gentleman in Brooklyn;
    this I promptly returned"; to which the control replied: 

    "This one has not been returned." And then, after a moment's silence, he
    said: "Do you know whether there is a large iron safe in Plymouth Church?" 

    I answered: "I do not." 

    He said: "I am impressed that this coin is in a large iron safe, that it
    has been lost sight of; it is in a drawer in this safe under a lot of
    papers, and that you can find it, and Mr. Beecher wishes you to find it." 

    I said: "Do you mean that this safe is in Plymouth Church?" 

    He said: "I don't know where it is. I am simply impressed that it is in a
    large iron safe in a drawer under a lot of papers, and has been lost sight
    of for years, and that you can find it, and Mr. Beecher wishes you to find
    it. That is all that I can tell you."

Funk goes on to inquire of his business manager, who insists that it was
returned, and of Mr. Wagnalls and Wheeler, who knew nothing of the coin, but
Wheeler, a skeptic, suggests that it's a good test.  Funk asks a cashier, who
remembers the coin, but also says that it had been returned, to investigate.
 After twenty minutes, the cashier returns with an envelope containing two
"Widow's Mites," which was located in one of two safes (the large iron one), in
a drawer under papers.

The two coins are a smaller light-colored one and a larger black one, and Funk
recalls that the smaller one was used for the illustration in the dictionary
and that it was the genuine article, while the other was a fake.  He returns to
the medium, and asks which coin is the right one.  Contrary to his belief, the
medium (as "George") says that it is the black one, and that the friend of Mr.
Beecher's to whom it belongs is a man associated with a large ladies' school in
Brooklyn Heights.  Funk recalls that it was borrowed from Prof. Charles E.
West, head of a ladies' school in Brooklyn Heights.

Funk sends both coins to the Philadelphia Mint for examination, and they
determine that the medium is correct, the black one is the correct one, and the
wrong one was used for the illustration in the dictionary.

Funk notes that the preface of the dictionary notes, regarding the
illustrations, contains the description "The Widow's Mite (which was engraved
from an excellent original coin in the possession of Prof. Charles E. West of
Brooklyn, N.Y.)."

Funk's book provides a number of affidavits supporting the recounting of
events, including that only two people present with the medium knew of Funk's
connection to the coin (Funk and Irving Roney, the latter of whom provided an
affidavit), that no one knew that the coin had not been returned, and that the
cashier staff had no knowledge of the coin which was in the safe in their
office.

The coin was returned to West's son, who also provides an affidavit stating
that he was unaware that the coin had not been returned and assumed that it had
been.  Funk says he dined repeatedly with the elder West prior to his death,
and the coin was never brought up.

Funk proceeds to list a series of facts about the case and some possible
explanations (pp. 168ff), and finds difficulties with fraud, coincidence,
telepathy and clairvoyance, and spirit communications as explanations, though
he appears to favor the last of these.

Funk presented the case to a number of eminent scientists of the day, including
William James, Alfred Russell Wallace, and William Crookes, of which those
listed were all associated with the SPR or ASPR and each suggested spirits as a
possible explanation.  Many of the other scientists and philosophers, however,
suggested fraud or deception (see table in Funk's book, pp. 177-178).

As presented in Blum's book, this case seems more impressive than it does with
all of the details in Funk's account.  What I find suspicious are that the
medium is located in the same city as the person from whom the coin was
borrowed, that the connection between the owner of the coin and the
illustration was published in Funk's dictionary (omitted by Blum), and that
although the son had forgotten about the coin being loaned out, he thought "it
altogether likely that his father told at the time other members of his family,
and possibly some persons outside the family" (Funk, p. 174).  All that it
would take for the fraud hypothesis would be that the medium had heard,
second-hand, about the never-returned coin, and speculated that it had been
forgotten and was kept in a safe (and perhaps offered a guess about which coin
was genuine; that information has no clear source from the details recounted).
 Funk infers that because West never brought up the coin that he had forgotten
about it, but that is an assumption on his part--perhaps West made periodic
complaints about it not having been returned, but didn't mention it to his son.
 Funk suggests, based on class distinctions, that no one in the medium circle
other than himself would have known that West even existed, which seems a
highly questionable assumption.

Posted by Jim Lippard at 3/09/2013 10:31:00 AM 0 comments ● Links to this post

Labels: history, psychics, skepticism

Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
●

Subscribe To

[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
●

Blog Archive

  • ▼  2016 (1)
      □ ▼  January (1)
          ☆ Books read in 2015

  • ►  2015 (3)
      □ ►  November (1)
      □ ►  July (1)
      □ ►  January (1)

  • ►  2014 (3)
      □ ►  October (1)
      □ ►  April (1)
      □ ►  January (1)

  • ►  2013 (5)
      □ ►  October (1)
      □ ►  April (1)
      □ ►  March (2)
      □ ►  January (1)

  • ►  2012 (7)
      □ ►  September (1)
      □ ►  August (1)
      □ ►  May (1)
      □ ►  February (3)
      □ ►  January (1)

  • ►  2011 (24)
      □ ►  December (1)
      □ ►  November (1)
      □ ►  September (4)
      □ ►  August (2)
      □ ►  July (5)
      □ ►  June (4)
      □ ►  May (3)
      □ ►  April (1)
      □ ►  March (1)
      □ ►  January (2)

  • ►  2010 (39)
      □ ►  December (1)
      □ ►  November (4)
      □ ►  September (1)
      □ ►  August (1)
      □ ►  July (1)
      □ ►  June (3)
      □ ►  May (6)
      □ ►  April (11)
      □ ►  March (1)
      □ ►  February (6)
      □ ►  January (4)

  • ►  2009 (189)
      □ ►  December (11)
      □ ►  November (20)
      □ ►  October (14)
      □ ►  September (3)
      □ ►  August (24)
      □ ►  July (28)
      □ ►  June (18)
      □ ►  May (8)
      □ ►  April (13)
      □ ►  March (16)
      □ ►  February (19)
      □ ►  January (15)

  • ►  2008 (501)
      □ ►  December (32)
      □ ►  November (16)
      □ ►  October (29)
      □ ►  September (43)
      □ ►  August (64)
      □ ►  July (56)
      □ ►  June (48)
      □ ►  May (45)
      □ ►  April (79)
      □ ►  March (43)
      □ ►  February (30)
      □ ►  January (16)

  • ►  2007 (459)
      □ ►  December (29)
      □ ►  November (32)
      □ ►  October (35)
      □ ►  September (37)
      □ ►  August (42)
      □ ►  July (35)
      □ ►  June (46)
      □ ►  May (37)
      □ ►  April (15)
      □ ►  March (53)
      □ ►  February (50)
      □ ►  January (48)

  • ►  2006 (626)
      □ ►  December (53)
      □ ►  November (40)
      □ ►  October (55)
      □ ►  September (52)
      □ ►  August (62)
      □ ►  July (37)
      □ ►  June (50)
      □ ►  May (41)
      □ ►  April (47)
      □ ►  March (80)
      □ ►  February (43)
      □ ►  January (66)

  • ►  2005 (194)
      □ ►  December (68)
      □ ►  November (37)
      □ ►  October (48)
      □ ►  September (25)
      □ ►  August (16)

●

Recent Comments

●
Amazon.com Widgets
●

Facebook BlogNetworks

Blog Network:
Name:
The Lippard Blog
Topics:
skepticism, atheism, animal rescue
Join my network
Blog Networks
●

Post Indexes

  • The Best of The Lippard Blog
  • Index of Conference Summaries
  • Information Security Index
  • Net Neutrality Index

●

Links

  • www.discord.org
  • Jim Lippard's Skeptical Information Links

●

Labels

  • 9/11 conspiracy (21)
  • abortion (18)
  • ACLU (19)
  • Al Seckel (2)
  • alternative medicine (4)
  • Amway (3)
  • animal rescue (37)
  • animals (49)
  • Answers in Genesis (48)
  • Answers in Genesis schism (26)
  • ApostAZ podcast (21)
  • Aqua Teen Hunger Force (4)
  • Arizona (303)
  • Arizona Skeptic (8)
  • ArizonaCOR (2)
  • arts (32)
  • astroturfing (5)
  • atheism (120)
  • Ayaan Hirsi Ali (4)
  • Barack Obama (36)
  • Ben Stein (17)
  • Bill Maher (4)
  • Bill Muehlenberg (3)
  • biometrics (2)
  • books (56)
  • botnets (21)
  • Buster (1)
  • Casey Luskin (10)
  • censorship (20)
  • Center for Public Integrity (9)
  • charitable giving (29)
  • chiropractic (2)
  • Christopher Hitchens (5)
  • CIA (38)
  • civil liberties (122)
  • civil rights (6)
  • climate change (31)
  • conspiracy theory (43)
  • copyright (54)
  • Creation Ministries International (32)
  • creationism (231)
  • crime (104)
  • cryptozoology (2)
  • CSICOP (3)
  • Cunningham scandal (9)
  • Daniel Dennett (8)
  • David Paszkiewicz (22)
  • dirty politicians (21)
  • Discovery Institute (55)
  • dogs (52)
  • Dover trial (31)
  • drug laws (33)
  • earmarks (12)
  • economics (146)
  • education (71)
  • ethics (114)
  • euthanasia (1)
  • Expelled (59)
  • FCC (29)
  • FFRF (7)
  • finance (76)
  • fingerprints (2)
  • food (5)
  • forensics (2)
  • Fred (5)
  • gay marriage (23)
  • Goldwater Institute (20)
  • gun control (6)
  • Heartland Institute (8)
  • history (108)
  • hoaxes (15)
  • Holocaust denial (6)
  • homeopathy (3)
  • housing bubble (84)
  • hypnosis (2)
  • immigration (12)
  • InfraGard (9)
  • Institute for Creation Research (22)
  • Institute for Justice (13)
  • intelligent design (125)
  • Islam (16)
  • J.D. Hayworth (15)
  • James Randi (20)
  • Jeb Bush (2)
  • John McCain (59)
  • Kent Hovind (9)
  • kooks (38)
  • law (397)
  • Lawrence Krauss (1)
  • lottery winners and losers (8)
  • marketing (5)
  • medicine (32)
  • Mexico (8)
  • mind and brain (39)
  • minimum wage (4)
  • Mormons (13)
  • movies (70)
  • Multics (4)
  • music (36)
  • net neutrality (42)
  • NSA (30)
  • obituary (23)
  • OpenBSD (2)
  • Otto (9)
  • parody (23)
  • philosophy (66)
  • Phoenix Skeptics (8)
  • police abuse and corruption (48)
  • politics (620)
  • prayer (13)
  • privacy (49)
  • propaganda (20)
  • pseudoscience (22)
  • psychics (21)
  • radio (6)
  • rationality (50)
  • religion (488)
  • RESCUE (4)
  • Richard Cheese (9)
  • Richard Dawkins (17)
  • Richard Sternberg affair (15)
  • Robert Kiyosaki (4)
  • Ron Paul (11)
  • Sarah Palin (21)
  • science (193)
  • science fiction (9)
  • Scientology (67)
  • security (174)
  • Shelby (1)
  • silly quiz (6)
  • SkeptiCamp (9)
  • skepticism (107)
  • software patents (1)
  • Southern California Skeptics (1)
  • spam (35)
  • strange deaths (14)
  • Sylvia Browne (5)
  • technology (249)
  • telemarketing (13)
  • television (18)
  • The Amazing Meeting (23)
  • The Simple Dollar (3)
  • torture (37)
  • travel (24)
  • TSA incompetence (17)
  • U.S. Attorney scandal (10)
  • UFOs (18)
  • underground cities (2)
  • War on Christmas (6)
  • Wikileaks (3)
  • Wikipedia (12)
  • Wikiscanner (2)
  • wiretapping (39)

●
Listed on BlogShares
●

Contributors

  • Jim Lippard
  • Einzige
  • Kat Lippard

●

Followers

●

Google+ Followers

Blogroll

  • 
    Leiter Reports: A Philosophy Blog
    Corey Robin on Sanders and Clinton
    2 hours ago
  • 
    Freedom to Tinker
    Updating the Defend Trade Secrets Act?
    3 hours ago
  • 
    Sandwalk
    Richard Dawkins makes a mistake when describing why gene trees are evidence
    of evolution
    4 hours ago
  • 
    Dispatches from the Culture Wars
    AZ Students Pose With Racial Slur on Shirts
    6 hours ago
  • 
    The Simple Dollar
    Financial Independence on a Smaller Income
    7 hours ago
  • 
    The Housing Bubble Blog
    Giving Back Extraordinary, Stratospheric, Dramatic Growth
    11 hours ago
  • 
    Bleeding Heart Libertarians
    Send Libertarians to Prison!
    15 hours ago
  • 
    Schneier on Security
    Friday Squid Blogging: North Coast Squid
    23 hours ago
  • 
    EFF.org Updates
    Transparent and Participatory Processes Are Vital to Creating Copyright
    Rules that Work for Everyone
    1 day ago
  • 
    Telecom Ramblings
    More Indiana FTT For Zayo
    1 day ago
  • 
    The Daily WTF
    Error'd: There's Nothing to See Here
    1 day ago
  • 
    Free Association
    TGIF: The Constitution Revisited
    1 day ago
  • 
    The Technology Liberation Front
    Congress Must Pass Permanent Ban on Internet Access Taxes
    1 day ago
  • 
    Whewell's Ghost
    Whewell’s Gazette: Year 2, Vol. #27
    4 days ago
  • 
    The Panda's Thumb
    Rainbow
    5 days ago
  • 
    Recursivity
    Our Car's Fibonacci Odometer
    2 weeks ago
  • 
    The Daily Doubter
    Latest discount book buy
    2 weeks ago
  • 
    Playing Chess with Pigeons
    Consilience and whale evolution
    2 weeks ago
  • 
    Long or Short Capital
    How to Win the Lottery (You Already Did)
    2 weeks ago
  • 
    Metamagician and the Hellfire Club
    The Mystery of Moral Authority now published!
    2 weeks ago
  • 
    The Uncredible Hallq
    New WordPress blog
    6 months ago
  • 
    Will Wilkinson
    Libertarianism and the Politics of Everything
    9 months ago
  • 
    Renesys Blog
    Why Far-Flung Parts of the Internet Broke Today
    1 year ago
  • 
    Max More's Strategic Philosophy
    The Diachronic Self, chapter 4: Technological Transformation and
    Assimilation
    1 year ago
  • 
    Agoraphilia
    Economics of the Undead: Book and Blog
    1 year ago
  • 
    Changing Places
    Growing
    1 year ago
  • 
    The Volokh Conspiracy
    “Is it now acceptable grammar to say ‘[is a much better advocate] than me
    and 95% of my colleagues …’”?
    1 year ago
  • 
    Coyotl Consulting
    So what is the deal with the blog, Glen?
    2 years ago
  • 
    Naturalistic Atheism
    List of arguments against physicalism about consciousness
    3 years ago
  • 
    Thinking for Free
    Farewell
    3 years ago
  • 
    a simple prop
    Early 2012 Legislative Action
    3 years ago
  • 
    Ediacaran
    Seeing the Forest for the Trees
    3 years ago
  • 
    Attempts at Rational Behavior
    What is Yoga?
    3 years ago
  • 
    Die Eigenheit
    Tips to Maximize Enjoyment of the Great Smoky Mountains' Synchronous
    Firefly
    4 years ago
  • 
    Abe Heward's Blog
    Testers Cannot Be Perfect Proxies for End Users
    5 years ago
  • 
    South Mountain History
    E-Mail Account Fixed (and comment moderation disabled)
    5 years ago
  • 
    Duae Quartunciae
    Jurassic Pigeon at the Creation Museum!
    8 years ago
  • 
    Respectful Insolence
  • 
    The Secular Outpost
  • 
    EvolutionBlog
  • 
    “an illustrative account”

●
 
Quantcast
●

Google
Enter your search terms [                               ]
(*) Web             ( ) lippard.blogspot.com
( ) www.discord.org

Submit search form [Search] 

●
Creative Commons License
The Lippard Blog by Jim Lippard is licensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution-Noncommercial-No Derivative Works 3.0 United States License.
Based on a work at lippard.blogspot.com. Site Meter
●
