

                          Top Leaderboard, Site wide
                                        Truthdig: Drilling Beneath the Headlines             Sign up for Truthdig's Email
                                                                                      NewsletterLike Truthdig on Facebook
                                                                                      Follow Truthdig on TwitterSubscribe
Left Masthead                                                                                      to Truthdig's RSS Feed
January 23, 2016
                                                          • HOME
                                                    • Ear to the Ground
                                                    □ All Ear to the ground
                                                        □ Larry's List
                                                       • Columnists
                                                          □ Bill Blum
                                                        □ Bill Boyarsky
                                                          □ Juan Cole
                                                    □ Marcia Alesan Dawkins
                                                         □ Amy Goodman
                                                        □ Chris Hedges
                                                      □ Sonali Kolhatkar
                                                        □ Robert Scheer
                                                       □ Col. Ann Wright
                                                            □ More
                                                      • Truthdiggers
                                                        □ Global Voices
                                                  □ Truthdiggers of the Week
                                                   □ Nominate a Truthdigger
                                                        • Cartoons
                                                        □ Nick Anderson
                                                        □ Clay Bennett
                                                        □ Jeff Danziger
                                                         □ Mark Fiore
                                                          □ Mr. Fish
                                                       □ Mike Luckovich
                                                       □ Signe Wilkinson
                                                      □ Holiday Animation
                                                        □ All Cartoons
                                                     • Arts & Culture
                                                      □ Author Interview
                                                        □ Book Excerpts
                                                        □ Book Reviews
                                                           □ Essays
                                                        □ Film Reviews
                                                           □ Poetry
                                                          • Digs
                                                     □ The Death of Truth
                                                       □ The Last Letter
                                                          □ All Digs
                                                       • Multimedia
                                                          □ A/V Booth
                                                       □ Truthdig Radio
                                                        □ Photo Essays
                                                          □ Podcasts
                                                       □ Q&A: Live Chats
                                                          • Shop
                                                           □ Bazaar
                                                    □ Truthdig Merchandise
                                                         • Donate

Trending:

  • bernie sanders
  • flint michigan
  • no mas bebes
  • robert scheer

DIG DIRECTOR                       [atheism804x365_704_320]
                                    
Sam Harris                         An Atheist Manifesto                                              Jennifer Grey / Truthdig
Sam Harris is the author of the                                                                      Email this item Email   
New York Times bestseller, The     Sam Harris argues against irrational faith and its adherents      Print this item Print    
End of Faith: Religion, Terror,                                                                      Share this item... Share
and the Future of Reason and       Update: (2/08/2006 1:35 p.m. EST) Read Sam Harris’ additional
Letter to a Christian Nation.      arguments about The Reality of Islam
He is a graduate in philosophy                                                                         
from Stanford University and                             ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
has studied both Eastern and                                                                         Dig Director's Blog
Western religious traditions,      Editor’s Note: At a time when fundamentalist religion has an
along with a variety of...         unparalleled influence in the highest government levels in the
                                   United States, and religion-based terror dominates the world      Feb. 6, 2006
                                   stage, Sam Harris argues that progressive tolerance of
                                   faith-based unreason is as great a menace as religion itself.     Regarding the Muhammad
                                   Harris, a philosophy graduate of Stanford who has studied         Cartoon Controversy
  RELATED LINKS                    eastern and western religions, won the 2005 PEN Award for
                                   nonfiction for The End of Faith, which powerfully examines and    In recent days, crowds of
  Verses from                      explodes the absurdities of organized religion. Truthdig asked    thousands have gathered
  the Koran                        Harris to write a charter document for his thesis that belief     throughout the Muslim
  Pop Up: Quotations               in God, and appeasement of religious extremists of all faiths     world—burning European
  instructing                      by moderates, has been and continues to be the greatest threat    embassies, issuing
  observant Muslims                to world peace and a sustained assault on reason.                 threats, and even taking
  to despise                                                                                         hostages—in protest over
  nonbelievers.                                          ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━                          twelve cartoons depicting
                                                                                                     the Prophet Muhammad that
  www.samharris.org                An Atheist Manifesto                                              were published in a
                                                                                                     Danish newspaper.  The
  American Atheists                Somewhere in the world a man has abducted a little girl. Soon     problem is not merely
                                   he will rape, torture and kill her. If an atrocity of this        that the cartoons were
  Americans United                 kind is not occurring at precisely this moment, it will happen    mildly derogatory.  The
  for the Separation               in a few hours, or days at most. Such is the confidence we can    furor primarily erupted
  of Church and                    draw from the statistical laws that govern the lives of 6         over the fact that the
  State                            billion human beings. The same statistics also suggest that       Prophet had been depicted
                                   this girl s parents believe at this very moment that an           at all….
  The Center for                   all-powerful and all-loving God is watching over them and
  Inquiry                          their family. Are they right to believe this? Is it good that     CONTINUE *
                                   they believe this?                                                - - -
  Council for
  Secular Humanism                 No.                                                               Jan. 26, 2006

  Freedom From                     The entirety of atheism is contained in this response. Atheism    Response to Reader
  Religion                         is not a philosophy; it is not even a view of the world; it is    Comments and Criticsm
  Foundation                       simply a refusal to deny the obvious.  Unfortunately, we live
                                   in a world in which the obvious is overlooked as a matter of      While “An Atheist
  The Raving Atheist               principle. The obvious must be observed and re-observed and       Manifesto” received
                                   argued for. This is a thankless job. It carries with it an        considerable support from
  The Secular Web                  aura of petulance and insensitivity. It is, moreover, a job       readers of Truthdig, a
                                   that the atheist does not want.                                   variety of criticisms
  The Skeptics                                                                                       surfaced in the reader
  Society                                                                                            commentary.  I summarize
                                                                                                     and respond…
                                   It is worth noting that no one ever needs to identify himself
                                   as a non-astrologer or a non-alchemist. Consequently, we do       CONTINUE *
                                   not have words for people who deny the validity of these          - - -
                                   pseudo-disciplines. Likewise, atheism is a term that should        
                                   not even exist. Atheism is nothing more than the noises            
                                   reasonable people make when in the presence of religious           
                                   dogma. The atheist is merely a person who believes that the       Advertisement
                                   260 million Americans (87% of the population) who claim to
                                   never doubt the existence of God  should be obliged to present      Right 1, Site wide -
                                   evidence for his existence and, indeed, for his benevolence,           BlogAds Premium
                                   given the relentless destruction of innocent human beings we
                                   witness in the world each day. Only the atheist appreciates                    
                                   just how uncanny our situation is: Most of us believe in a God
                                   that is every bit as specious as the gods of Mount Olympus; no      Right 1, Site wide -
                                   person, whatever his or her qualifications, can seek public                BlogAds
                                   office in the United States without pretending to be certain         
                                   that such a God exists; and much of what passes for public            Join the Liberal
                                   policy in our country conforms to religious taboos and                Blog Advertising
                                   superstitions appropriate to a medieval theocracy. Our                    Network
                                   circumstance is abject, indefensible and terrifying. It would        
                                   be hilarious if the stakes were not so high.                         
                                                                                                        
                                   We live in a world where all things, good and bad, are finally
                                   destroyed by change. Parents lose their children and children
                                   their parents. Husbands and wives are separated in an instant,
                                   never to meet again. Friends part company in haste, without
                                   knowing that it will be for the last time. This life, when
                                   surveyed with a broad glance, presents little more than a vast
                                   spectacle of loss. Most people in this world, however, imagine
                                   that there is a cure for this. If we live rightly—not
                                   necessarily ethically, but within the framework of certain
                                   ancient beliefs and stereotyped behaviors—we will get
                                   everything we want after we die. When our bodies finally fail
                                   us, we just shed our corporeal ballast and travel to a land
                                   where we are reunited with everyone we loved while alive. Of
                                   course, overly rational people and other rabble will be kept
                                   out of this happy place, and those who suspended their
                                   disbelief while alive will be free to enjoy themselves for all
                                   eternity.

                                   We live in a world of unimaginable surprises—from the fusion
                                   energy that lights the sun to the genetic and evolutionary
                                   consequences of this lights dancing for eons upon the
                                   Earth—and yet Paradise conforms to our most superficial
                                   concerns with all the fidelity of a Caribbean cruise. This is
                                   wondrously strange. If one didn’t know better, one would think
                                   that man, in his fear of losing all that he loves, had created
                                   heaven, along with its gatekeeper God, in his own image.

                                   Consider the destruction that Hurricane Katrina leveled on New
                                   Orleans. More than a thousand people died, tens of thousands
                                   lost all their earthly possessions, and nearly a million were
                                   displaced. It is safe to say that almost every person living
                                   in New Orleans at the moment Katrina struck believed in an
                                   omnipotent, omniscient and compassionate God. But what was God
                                   doing while a hurricane laid waste to their city? Surely he
                                   heard the prayers of those elderly men and women who fled the
                                   rising waters for the safety of their attics, only to be
                                   slowly drowned there. These were people of faith. These were
                                   good men and women who had prayed throughout their lives. Only
                                   the atheist has the courage to admit the obvious: These poor
                                   people died talking to an imaginary friend.

                                   Of course, there had been ample warning that a storm of
                                   biblical proportions would strike New Orleans, and the human
                                   response to the ensuing disaster was tragically inept. But it
                                   was inept only by the light of science. Advance warning of
                                   Katrina’s path was wrested from mute Nature by meteorological
                                   calculations and satellite imagery. God told no one of his
                                   plans. Had the residents of New Orleans been content to rely
                                   on the beneficence of the Lord, they wouldn’t have known that
                                   a killer hurricane was bearing down upon them until they felt
                                   the first gusts of wind on their faces. Nevertheless, a poll
                                   conducted by The Washington Post found that 80% of Katrina’s
                                   survivors claim that the event has only strengthened their
                                   faith in God.

                                   As Hurricane Katrina was devouring New Orleans, nearly a
                                   thousand Shiite pilgrims were trampled to death on a bridge in
                                   Iraq. There can be no doubt that these pilgrims believed
                                   mightily in the God of the Koran: Their lives were organized
                                   around the indisputable fact of his existence; their women
                                   walked veiled before him; their men regularly murdered one
                                   another over rival interpretations of his word. It would be
                                   remarkable if a single survivor of this tragedy lost his
                                   faith. More likely, the survivors imagine that they were
                                   spared through God’s grace.

                                   Only the atheist recognizes the boundless narcissism and
                                   self-deceit of the saved. Only the atheist realizes how
                                   morally objectionable it is for survivors of a catastrophe to
                                   believe themselves spared by a loving God while this same God
                                   drowned infants in their cribs. Because he refuses to cloak
                                   the reality of the world’s suffering in a cloying fantasy of
                                   eternal life, the atheist feels in his bones just how precious
                                   life is—and, indeed, how unfortunate it is that millions of
                                   human beings suffer the most harrowing abridgements of their
                                   happiness for no good reason at all.

                                   One wonders just how vast and gratuitous a catastrophe would
                                   have to be to shake the world’s faith. The Holocaust did not
                                   do it. Neither did the genocide in Rwanda, even with
                                   machete-wielding priests among the perpetrators. Five hundred
                                   million people died of smallpox in the 20th Century, many of
                                   them infants. God’s ways are, indeed, inscrutable. It seems
                                   that any fact, no matter how infelicitous, can be rendered
                                   compatible with religious faith. In matters of faith, we have
                                   kicked ourselves loose of the Earth.

                                   Of course, people of faith regularly assure one another that
                                   God is not responsible for human suffering. But how else can
                                   we understand the claim that God is both omniscient and
                                   omnipotent? There is no other way, and it is time for sane
                                   human beings to own up to this. This is the age-old problem of
                                   theodicy, of course, and we should consider it solved. If God
                                   exists, either he can do nothing to stop the most egregious
                                   calamities or he does not care to. God, therefore, is either
                                   impotent or evil. Pious readers will now execute the following
                                   pirouette: God cannot be judged by merely human standards of
                                   morality. But, of course, human standards of morality are
                                   precisely what the faithful use to establish God’s goodness in
                                   the first place. And any God who could concern himself with
                                   something as trivial as gay marriage, or the name by which he
                                   is addressed in prayer, is not as inscrutable as all that. If
                                   he exists, the God of Abraham is not merely unworthy of the
                                   immensity of creation; he is unworthy even of man.

                                   There is another possibility, of course, and it is both the
                                   most reasonable and least odious: The biblical God is a
                                   fiction. As Richard Dawkins has observed, we are all atheists
                                   with respect to Zeus and Thor. Only the atheist has realized
                                   that the biblical god is no different. Consequently, only the
                                   atheist is compassionate enough to take the profundity of the
                                   world’s suffering at face value. It is terrible that we all
                                   die and lose everything we love; it is doubly terrible that so
                                   many human beings suffer needlessly while alive. That so much
                                   of this suffering can be directly attributed to religion—to
                                   religious hatreds, religious wars, religious delusions and
                                   religious diversions of scarce resources—is what makes atheism
                                   a moral and intellectual necessity. It is a necessity,
                                   however, that places the atheist at the margins of society.
                                   The atheist, by merely being in touch with reality, appears
                                   shamefully out of touch with the fantasy life of his
                                   neighbors.

                                                                  Continued: The Nature of Belief
                                   *
                                                                      1   2   3   4 NEXT PAGE >>>

                                   Dig last updated on Dec. 7, 2005



                                   TAGS: atheism atheist manifesto fundamentalist god religion 
                                   sam harris the end of faith tolerance



                                   SHARE THIS ARTICLE:
                                   
                                   ● Email to a friend

                                   Get truth delivered to
                                   your inbox every week.

                                   [Your email here     ] SIGN UP



                                   *More Below the Ad

                                   Advertisement

                                   Square, Site wide
                                   
                                   
                                   New and Improved Comments

                                   If you have trouble leaving a comment, review this help page.
                                   Still having problems? Let us know. If you find yourself
                                   moderated, take a moment to review our comment policy.

                                   Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by
                                   Disqus.
                                   THE SNED's avatar

                                   By THE SNED, May 23, 2012 at 11:11 am Link to this comment

                                   Shenonymous, thank you for the book reference…you’ll also find
                                   some in
                                   depth references to Constantine in the “Bible myths” book.
                                   Seems the reason he
                                   waited till his death bed to be baptized was because baptism
                                   would remove all
                                   his sins…and there were many. It was the thing to do in those
                                   days. Sin first,
                                   baptize last.

                                   Ah yes Paul.  His words occupy more of the new testament than
                                   all the other
                                   writers combined yet he records but one Jesus saying. (Which
                                   one I don’t
                                   remember). Now wouldn’t one wonder about that?  And none of
                                   the other
                                   writers use the world “I” or “we”...as in “we” saw Jesus break
                                   bread. Then the
                                   Prof and I got into the subject of “Quelle”...the unknown
                                   source for Jesus stories
                                   that Luke and Matthew draw upon that are not mentioned in
                                   Mark.  According
                                   to the Prof…Quell was created by subtracting all the like
                                   stories told in Matt,
                                   Mk, Lk,  from the full texts..and the result is “Q.
                                   ” Any chance that Matthew and Luke just made up their stories?
                                   ”
                                   “Ok no!!!!” goes the Prof.
                                   “Oh no why? ask I.
                                   “We must move along..”

                                   It’s too funny.

                                   I’m also intrigued, Shenonymous by this statement you made.
                                   “The disciples
                                   who personally knew Jesus when he was alive, were Peter, James
                                   and John,
                                   none of which left any writings behind explaining anything
                                   about Jesus
                                   or how he seemed to them, what did thing was his mission.

                                   That’s 3 out of 12. Now I admit again I’m not a biblical
                                   scholar…and your
                                   statement/claim is new to me. Please explain. (And there’s no
                                   way that
                                   MT,Mrk,Lk knew him either..nor were they disciples.

                                   Finally I ask this question of all..even G.

                                   Is it ethical to teach a course in comparative religion and
                                   not reveal your bias
                                   up front and explain exactly what that bias is. I could
                                   understand that in a
                                   religiously based college could be expected..but here’s a prof
                                   in a public
                                   institution trying to prove the validity of Jesus using
                                   simplistic C.S. Lewis
                                   logic…and offering ridiculous responses to very legitimate
                                   questions. (or
                                   avoiding to answer because of time constraints.)

                                   Report this
                                   Shenonymous's avatar

                                   By Shenonymous, May 22, 2012 at 8:03 pm Link to this comment

                                   Yes, Night-Gaunt, how could we ever forget Paul’s not so
                                   invisible
                                   hand at crafting the religion

                                   What one comes to believe is really a matter of choice.  In
                                   matters
                                   where there are elements unknown, there will always be an
                                   over-
                                   abundance of theories of all estimations.  And this is true
                                   even
                                   of sincere scholars who are tempted down one historical path
                                   rather than another.

                                   Jesus never knew Paul; they never met even once. The disciples
                                   who
                                   personally knew Jesus when he was alive, were Peter, James and
                                   John,
                                   none of which left any writings behind explaining anything
                                   about Jesus
                                   or how he seemed to them, what did thing was his mission. Paul
                                   made
                                   the claim that his interpretations were not an ordinary
                                   invention but
                                   had come to him by some personal inspiration; he claimed that
                                   he had
                                   personal acquaintance with the resurrected Jesus, even though
                                   he had
                                   never met him during his lifetime and came to know him by
                                   personal
                                   inspiration; moreover, he also claimed that he had personal
                                   acquaintance
                                   with the resurrected Jesus, even though he had never met him
                                   during
                                   his lifetime. He gained such acquaintance, Paul said, through
                                   visions
                                   and rapturous transports, which he thought were actually
                                   superior to
                                   real life acquaintance he might have had with the real Jesus
                                   during his
                                   lifetime, especially on account of when Jesus was much more
                                   reticent
                                   about his purposes.  I, Shenonymous, find this bit of
                                   revelation very
                                   suspicious.

                                   There is a great deal more to tell of this story of Paul and
                                   Jesus and
                                   Christianity but I’m too tired to go on.  I’ll chime in again
                                   possibly
                                   tomorrow after work.  Paul plays a pivotal role in the
                                   ascendency of
                                   Christianity perhaps even more so than Constantine and
                                   therefore he
                                   needs to be revealed for what he was if we are to understand
                                   the
                                   phenomena.

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, May 22, 2012 at 5:32 pm Link to this comment

                                   Truly ironic. However to make the connexion complete between
                                   Jesus and Constantine I would add Saul of Tarsus who became
                                   Paul of Tarsus after his being struck by a beam from heaven
                                   changed him.  He was the one who changed Jesus’ Judaic only
                                   religion to a Paulian Christianity that spread among the
                                   Gentiles. Before that it was kept close to the vestment among
                                   those Jews who listened and followed the teachings of Jesus.
                                   So he primed the pump. But then Christianity was an
                                   underground religion too for the longest time.

                                   I did wonder why Emperor Constantine was ignored so often by
                                   Christians. Without him who knows what religion or religions
                                   would be dominant now? Maybe the sectarian wars would have
                                   been more numerous and brutal than they were.

                                   I do wonder about what he and his armies saw in relation to
                                   the “flying fiery crosses” that supposedly helped him decide
                                   that Christianity was the one to put his empire behind it>

                                   Thank you both for the information.

                                   Report this
                                   Shenonymous's avatar

                                   By Shenonymous, May 22, 2012 at 7:01 am Link to this comment

                                   You are so intuitive, THE SNED!  How coincidental.  I agree he
                                   was
                                   the main instrument of the course Christianity took almost
                                   2000
                                   years ago. Your observations seem fact based.  Having been
                                   raised
                                   Christian (both as a Catholic and a Baptist), from church
                                   studies I did
                                   know as a youngster then later as a college student in a
                                   couple of
                                   comparative religions classes that it was on account of
                                   Constantine
                                   that Christianity took the choking hold on the world that it
                                   did.  If you
                                   are interested, John Firth’s “Constantine the Great: the
                                   reorganization of
                                   the empire and the triumph of the church” is a definitive
                                   history and can
                                   be downloaded for free as a 458-page pdf file at
                                   http://archive.org/details/constantinegreat00firt the pages
                                   between  
                                   and 158 stunningly shows his genuine religious virtue (quasi?
                                   and/or ostensibly? or sincere is a matter of interpretation,
                                   and is the
                                   opinion I have taken because of the really unChristain deeds
                                   he
                                   committed) in contrast for his ambition for warring with
                                   perceived
                                   political and other empowered enemies.

                                   Starting with the facts of his birth, historians are not able
                                   to determine
                                   whether or not Constantine’s parents were married or if Helena
                                   was a
                                   concubine, so it is a possibility he was a bastard son which
                                   would be
                                   seen as shameful if not completely sinful to the Christian
                                   religion he
                                   established not only as a magisterial institution but also in
                                   taking the
                                   license of emperors to do so to rename Byzantium as the city
                                   of
                                   Constantinople (which means New Constantine, uh…after himself,
                                   egotistically and placing himself closer to GOD?).

                                   The records show that he was a military tribune, meaning he
                                   was a
                                   military officer of the Roman Legion and was an official of
                                   the Roman
                                   State when he returned after military duty to the colony
                                   Nicomedia on
                                   the north coast of Asia Minor (Turkey) and southeast of
                                   Byzantium that
                                   later became Constantine’s self-named city.  He started out
                                   with the
                                   hand of power in the early 3rd century to the inception of
                                   what is called
                                   the Great Persecution of Christians, the worst in Roman
                                   history that
                                   destroyed churches, burned the holy books, imprisonment of
                                   priests and
                                   murdered members of the religion among other human
                                   violations. 

                                   P. 120 sort of gives a peek, a tiny peek at how the politics
                                   of warriors
                                   had evolved.

                                       Constantine and Licinius now shared between them
                                       the whole of the Roman Empire. They were allies, but
                                       their alliance did not long stand the strain.

                                   then on P. 151 due also to politics transference from Roman
                                   paganism
                                   to the monist religion of the Christians is foreshadowed. 

                                       The Emperor Maxentius had begun his reign by seeking
                                       to secure the good-will of the Christians. Eusebius,
                                       indeed,
                                       makes the incredible statement that in order to please and
                                       flatter the Roman people he pretended to embrace the
                                       Christian
                                       faith and ” assumed the mask of piety.” Probably all he
                                       did was to
                                       leave the Christians of Rome in peace. The chair of St.
                                       Peter had
                                       remained empty for four years after the death of Bishop
                                       Marcellinus. 
                                       In 308 Marcellus was elected to fill it and the Church was
                                       organised
                                       afresh.

                                   Thanks!  You are probably right that not many ever knew this
                                   origin of
                                   the Christian advancement to western civilization.

                                   Report this
                                   THE SNED's avatar

                                   By THE SNED, May 21, 2012 at 10:48 pm Link to this comment

                                   to Shenonymous-another subject worth studying is Constantine.
                                   In my juvenile
                                   college religion class I suggested that Constantine was as
                                   important to he
                                   success of Christianity as Jesus himself. I thought the
                                   professor would have a
                                   heart attack. “Not at all, not at all…the surrounding
                                   countries were already
                                   Christian!” (end of discussion) But in fact the Romans were
                                   not Christian. The
                                   army and the rich were pagans. Yet Rome was THE country in the
                                   world, and
                                   Constantine’s acceptance of Christianity was the beginning of
                                   the end for
                                   pagan religions in the empire. When Christianity was later
                                   made the official
                                   religion of Rome they tore down pagan temples and persecuted
                                   pagans in the
                                   same way Christians were. In reality it went on for almost
                                   1400
                                   years…especially in countries that were officially Catholic.
                                   Constantine did not
                                   like conflict among his people…and the Christian sects were at
                                   each other’s
                                   throats as to who or what Jesus was. So he stepped in…had
                                   religious texts
                                   burned…he called the Counsel of Nicea….of which little is
                                   known…except for
                                   the Nicean Creed most of us mumbled at one time or
                                   another….without having
                                   the foggiest notion of how to explain the trinity. The other
                                   thing the emperors
                                   did was put the clergy in political offices. You can imagine
                                   the effects that had. 
                                   As Ehrman states, without Rome, Christianity today might not
                                   even exist, or
                                   exist as a minor religion. If only that were true today…(By
                                   the way the Romans
                                   allowed all to worship…only the Christians attempted to
                                   convert people.)

                                   I laugh when people (including my professor) claim that
                                   Christianity has to be
                                   true based on the fact there are some many Christians in the
                                   world….and yet
                                   even I didn’t know the extent of Constantine’s influence for
                                   decades until I
                                   picked up a small pocketbook on Constantine written by a
                                   British Professor of
                                   ancient history. Quite the eye opener. I’d wager that the
                                   average Christian
                                   hasn’t the foggiest idea of his influence. Not a clue. Why
                                   should they? The have
                                   faith.

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, May 14, 2012 at 1:53 pm Link to this comment

                                   Recent research has shown the more you engage your analytical
                                   part of your brain the more the intuitive part where the
                                   belief comes out of. Even religious people when they must
                                   analyze they suppress their other part of the brain. It may
                                   explain why so many of them don’t want to analyze too much for
                                   they feel their faith slipping away.

                                   Canadian researchers have demonstrated in a new study that
                                   analytical thinking and religious beliefs do not really go
                                   hand in hand. Their work suggests that even devout believers
                                   experience a shift in their religious views when they begin to
                                   think analytically.

                                   http://news.softpedia.com/news/
                                   Religious-Belief-Analytical-Thinking-Don-t-Mix-266748.shtml

                                   Part 2
                                   Furthermore, there’s no reason, evolutionary psychobabble not
                                   withstanding, to treat religious belief as something people
                                   cling to based on intuition or gut reaction. People do, in
                                   fact, become religious as a result of careful, critical study.

                                   http://thepassivehabit.blogspot.com/2012/04/
                                   critical-thinking-and-religious-belief.html

                                   However there are some flies in that ointment of an idea. Read
                                   on.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_profi]

                                   By Tom Edgar, May 13, 2012 at 8:23 pm Link to this comment
                                   (Unregistered commenter)

                                   Mein Gott in Himmel. How long must one live before the bright
                                   light shines through?

                                   Being antagonistic and one eyed politically is no different to
                                   the same attitude religiously.

                                   Not being an American I have no affiliation nor feelings for
                                   Obama but I do know that the alternative, to my mind, is a
                                   whole lot worse. What is more as long as the Americans, and
                                   this applies here too, remain locked in to a two party system,
                                   them or us, attitude they will always have the same problems.

                                   It should be obvious when the only truly independent, and
                                   atheist, in American politics always remains the only person
                                   that one can trust to be a Politician FOR the people and not
                                   for his own personal gain.

                                   The average voter usually remains with the Party (and
                                   religion)into which he is born and nurtured, never once
                                   questioning that his loyalty is an unthinking one.

                                   Recent research has shown THINKING people are usually non
                                   religious even if they were born and nurtured into it.  The
                                   same applies to Politics.
                                   I was born and brought up, belonged to, and was once even a
                                   prospective candidate, in the Labor Party.  Thinking changed
                                   me.  Well that, and that the Labor Party is “Labor” nowadays
                                   in name only.  Haven’t voted for the “Party”  in many decades.

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, May 13, 2012 at 5:03 pm Link to this comment

                                   To me from his actions, President Obama is a wolf in sheep’s
                                   skin or a hawk in pigeon’s feathers. Very dangerous but he is
                                   nice about it. Giving us Culture sops is nice but he is still
                                   busy building on what was laid down before concerning the
                                   behind the scenes National Security State’s growth and it is
                                   now wider, further and deeper than ever before. That is where
                                   his real form makes manifest. And it is ugly.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By Tom Edgar, May 13, 2012 at 3:55 pm Link to this comment

                                   OH Here I am as a visitor once again. can’t navigate to this
                                   any other way.

                                   How are Americans as migrants viewed here?  As favored
                                   cousins, much like a Pom (Limey).  Tolerated. If genuinely a
                                   migrant with intentions of improving ones status i.e. becoming
                                   Australian, then as the rest, Koreans, Chinese, Indian, well
                                   just about every nationality really, welcome aboard.  Now that
                                   isn’t to ignore that there are still pockets of bigotry,as
                                   exists in every country.

                                   My wife and her siblings experienced this bigotry many years
                                   ago, and she was only Chinese from one relative from the
                                   1850’s.  Happily much of that has disappeared, along with the
                                   wide divide between Catholic and Protestants.  I well remember
                                   in the 1950/60s weddings where the opposing factions would not
                                   enter the “enemies” churches.  Now they generally opt for a
                                   “Civil” wedding, if one at all.  That is how I was married, at
                                   the State Registry Office, throwing a spanner into the works
                                   too by refusing to take the oath on the Bible.  They had to
                                   search for the “Affirmation.”

                                   New Zealand antagonistic towards Americans?  I don’t think
                                   they are any more so than to any other interloper, Oz
                                   included. Actually the largest single migrant group in
                                   Australia are New Zealanders.  I well remember the N Z Prime
                                   Minister’s rejoinder when his Australian counterpart remarked
                                   on the disproportionate numbers, (several thousand Oz in N Z
                                   over 400,000 New Zealanders here).  “That should improve the
                                   intelligence quota in both countries.”
                                   No Sport I think you will find that in any country those who
                                   aren’t acceptable are those who want to remain identifiably
                                   allied to their original nationality, whilst superficially
                                   accepting the rights and privileges of the country to which
                                   they migrated.  This presents some dilemmas insofar as it is
                                   ridiculous not to point out any deficiencies in the system in
                                   the country of residence.  As much as I have a residual of
                                   affection for the U S A I would hate to have its Legal/
                                   Political/Religious system

                                   The biggest single identifiable example was stated by Salman
                                   Rushdie when remarking on Far Eastern immigrants who fled
                                   their, invariably Muslim, homelands to better their lives in
                                   many other places.  I paraphrase.  “Why do they come, to this
                                   country, fleeing the system that caused them to migrate, then
                                   insist on introducing the traditions that caused them to flee?
                                   ”

                                   Grin… I think Obama is not a turtle on a ledge, more likely a
                                   Hawk. For the first term he is still shackled and hooded tied
                                   to his masters for sustenance.  In the second term he will not
                                   need their controls and could well fly away. IF IT SUITS HIM.
                                   No longer needing help for an impossible third term,  it is
                                   possible for him to be himself and do his own thing. IF IT
                                   SUITS HIM. Ah! I’m afraid the eternal Skeptic within me is
                                   always there.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By grin1020, May 13, 2012 at 2:45 pm Link to this comment

                                   Obama reminds me of a turtle on a ledge. You know he didn’t
                                   get up there by himself, he doesn’t belong up there, he
                                   doesn’t know what to do while he’s up there, he’s elevated
                                   beyond his ability to function, and you just wonder what kind
                                   of dumb arse put him up there.

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, May 13, 2012 at 1:21 pm Link to this comment

                                   Leefella & Tom Edgar I had heard last year that a pioneering
                                   group of Dominionists were moving en mass to New Zealand. (To
                                   begin a take over perhaps?) Also it works out better if you
                                   just register. I did that years ago, much easier and faster. I
                                   got no down side from it.

                                   Also Atheists are rated below rapists in the USA. And in
                                   places like Texas it is on the books illegal for an open
                                   Atheist to run for any office. I think I know who will be at
                                   the top of their liquidation lists should they do succeed and
                                   take over the USA. (You can bet that they have very long lists
                                   of enemies and perceived enemies.)

                                   For Grin 2010 your comment is ZZZZZZ.

                                   Report this
                                   Leefeller's avatar

                                   By Leefeller, May 13, 2012 at 8:14 am Link to this comment

                                   Polling here in the US, accordingly rates an Atheist below a
                                   Communist in the grand scheme of acceptance? May have
                                   something to do with Atheists not lobbying and buying their
                                   way into politics as as self righteous religious fanatics
                                   have?

                                   So in the good old USA an orthodox out of the closet Atheist
                                   is shunned as common sense, reality and something seldom
                                   allowed out of the closet, called truth.

                                   For what it is worth, I have changed my webby experiencing so
                                   I can read anything on TD, but responding is limited to once
                                   or twice a week, if I am inclined.  So I will be watching as
                                   long as this Manifesto lives.

                                   Yes She enlightenment is limited to what I perceive to be the
                                   un-greedy, well myopically to those who would be signified as
                                   lower then communists, according to self righteous undeveloped
                                   mindless ones here in the good old USA.

                                   I know yanks are not accepted with open arms in New or Old
                                   Zeland, but what of Australia Tom?

                                   Report this
                                   Shenonymous's avatar

                                   By Shenonymous, May 13, 2012 at 12:00 am Link to this comment

                                   Yes, we’ve all been away busy elsewhere…But when notices come
                                   in of new posts, how can we resist?

                                   THE SNED, response to April 23 the college experience,
                                   especially
                                   at the freshman or sophomore level can be liberating or a
                                   mentally
                                   crippling enterprise.  I happened to have had a potent
                                   professor
                                   whose whole mission in teaching was to help people develop
                                   their
                                   own mind using comparative philosophy and comparative
                                   religion.
                                   There were enlightening discoveries that have lasted lifelong
                                   not only
                                   for myself but many of my classmates that after decades we
                                   keep in
                                   touch and are a level more aware of our world than most of the
                                   population.  Will our expanded understandings afford us a more
                                   enriched life?  Well maybe not in financial wealth, but to
                                   have a life
                                   that has a broader capacity to enjoy more of what we call our
                                   life and
                                   the world can only be extraordinary and dignify the organic
                                   experience
                                   humans can have.  The universe is vast and most of the
                                   population not
                                   only barely comprehends it, they cannot truly fathom it
                                   because of
                                   limited intellectual development.  You assume too much
                                   perhaps.  The
                                   arts are not missing from my life at all.  Also accomplished
                                   in music,
                                   fine arts, and poetry, these arts have provided me ways of
                                   seeing and
                                   experiencing the world that ordinary life or other academic
                                   pursuits
                                   does not.

                                   The Doane book you recommended is excellent for examining the
                                   Bible in terms of the mythologies that existed prior to its
                                   writing and
                                   to show it is not as original as imagined.  Written in 1882,
                                   it is as
                                   thorough a scholarly work as one can be and useful for
                                   research.  And
                                   Ranke-Heinemann’s, “Putting Away Childish Things” deserves to
                                   be in
                                   one’s library if only because Pope John Paul II took her chair
                                   of Catholic
                                   theology away from her for her skepticism about the virgin
                                   birth of Jesus. 
                                   She had been the first woman to be the chair of Catholic
                                   theology in
                                   1970 and the first to lose it in 1987 because she questioned
                                   the virgin
                                   birth!  Yikes!  Oh well…she didn’t really lose much.  But her
                                   book is a
                                   worthwhile read.  These are limited to the Judeo/Christian
                                   experience
                                   while I find all religions problematic.

                                   Unregistered commenters might have more problems than members,
                                   Tom Edgar.  Sorry you are having such problems.  But I noticed
                                   years
                                   ago, like five, comments by Unregistered visitors are held up
                                   for posting
                                   by the site.  I’ve not found out why, as they do not give
                                   their reasons for
                                   doing anything.  It took up to two days sometimes for a post
                                   to show
                                   up, but it always did at the date and time it was originally
                                   posted so
                                   sometimes if there were many posts since that time it could be
                                   thought
                                   the post was not printed.  The only indication one gets is
                                   through the
                                   emailed notifications that a post was made.  Except you don’t
                                   get your
                                   own posting notifications.  Eh… que pouvons-nous faire?

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_profi]

                                   By Tom Edgar, May 11, 2012 at 8:11 pm Link to this comment
                                   (Unregistered commenter)

                                   Oh! Smiling one.  In my case trying to Log In is near
                                   impossible and a great deterrent to making comments.

                                   In the past I have logged in but only able to navigate back to
                                   this site by a circuitous navigation through Digs and then
                                   type in the site’s name.  Now that doesn’t work as evidently
                                   they haven’t heard of “Atheist Manifesto”. So back to being a
                                   lowly visitor.

                                   Having just been through a State election here and having seen
                                   a moderate (very moderate) socialist Party annihilated and an
                                   extremely right wing religiously oriented, group
                                   overwhelmingly elected, I voted for neither. We are now seeing
                                   the fascist/capitalist machinations with the extremism
                                   reminiscent of that other religious group.

                                   Now, thinking of the religiosity of the G O P candidate in the
                                   U S A for the Presidency, I have wondered what the outcome
                                   would be if Obama was an atheist such as our leader here? As
                                   it is, the incumbent has the disadvantage of being an
                                   unacceptable color and the challenger the wrong religion. 
                                   Does one cancel the other?

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By grin1020, May 11, 2012 at 5:58 pm Link to this comment

                                   No comments posted since April 26?  ZZZZzzzzz…

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, April 26, 2012 at 8:11 am Link to this comment

                                   I am sorry Tom Edgar for my impreciseness. I last recall the
                                   number at 78.5% Christian in the USA. I live in Texas so I do
                                   know it. And that Texas has some of the most backwards
                                   thinking people here. Now Glenn Beck has moved his operations
                                   here too lately.

                                   We have some of the best medical facilities here an yet we are
                                   first in lack of care. Texas is also first in executions too.
                                   Not something I would trumpet.

                                   Thank you for you input here today Tom, an to all the other
                                   thoughtful people here too.

                                   Report this
                                   Leefeller's avatar

                                   By Leefeller, April 26, 2012 at 6:19 am Link to this comment

                                   An enlightening series of posts, I find little disagreement
                                   and much respect, thank you all!

                                   Maybe unbelief should become just like them, and erect huge
                                   temples of ill repute, wear funny hats and shiny costumes in
                                   order to show how one can be unbelievable?

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By Tom Edgar, April 25, 2012 at 10:48 pm Link to this comment

                                   N G I think American Christianity is well over the 70%.  In
                                   the closing months of last year I travelled across America
                                   landing in a small Texas town (6,000 pop), where I was a guest
                                   of a highly intelligent and lovable person and the town’s only
                                   atheist.  O K that was Texas but I daresay the same or even
                                   worse could be found in many of those backward southern
                                   States.  My friend doesn’t call it Texarse for nothing.

                                   Talking to fellow travellers on the Amtrak it was pretty
                                   obvious that I was the only unbeliever at the meal tables,
                                   although there was no animus that I could detect.  Maybe they
                                   thought I was just displaying a peculiar Australian
                                   idiosyncrasy. Actually that is close to the truth.

                                   That being said it does account for the difference between
                                   Australian and American atheist’s attitudes.
                                   Australian non believers, being in such large numbers,aren’t
                                   nearly as aggressive nor as vociferous in their opposition to
                                   religion, it is, generally, a non event.

                                   A large proportion of our elected members actually make an
                                   affirmation instead of taking the oath, with our Prime
                                   Minister, the supreme example being a female, unmarried,
                                   cohabiting, atheist.  Her present lack of political popularity
                                   and credibility has nothing to do with her atheism.  She is
                                   just being a Politician.  Her Catholic opposite number is just
                                   as unpopular, for the same reason.

                                   No worries about your mother, I had similar problems with mine
                                   who couldn’t understand, that I wold lie in bed listening to
                                   the (European) U S Forces radio network programmes that
                                   featured “Spirituals” ( Blues etc’,(after midnight).  I would
                                   reply “Mom I don’t necessarily agree with the stupid words,
                                   but I feel the music, and the intensity of the emotion.”

                                   We have just had our ANZAC day parade for Veterans.  Oh yes
                                   I’m one. I won’t attend “Dawn” or any other service. But I
                                   involve myself in the parade as others march and some of us
                                   totter along.  Now I have to admit the hymn “Abide with me” is
                                   very emotive but the word sicken me especially as I hear them
                                   intoning about “Helper of the Helpless” and I see those
                                   hundreds of thousands of wasted lives of all faiths, who died,
                                   praying for the help that never came from a Deity but,
                                   occasionally, from a death defying Medic, or even, less
                                   often,  a misguided but well meaning Padre.  Most of those
                                   religious military members gave their blessings well behind
                                   the lines to those who were silly enough to think, along with
                                   the Cross on a necklace or the “Protective” amulet wearing
                                   believers of other faiths.  Both being much the same as those
                                   Catholic car drivers who sported “St Joseph” images that
                                   dangled across the windscreen of automobiles until the crash
                                   stopped their gyrations, along with their deceased occupants,
                                   when they wrapped it around yet another tree, or worse still
                                   another vehicle. “Oops Joe boy,  got yet another one wrong.”
                                   At least, in both cases, they died comfortably believing in
                                   the protection of a piece of alabaster or plaster.

                                   I apologise I’m being more than a little bitchy today, even I
                                   can be moved to condemnatory rhetoric when confronted by human
                                   stupidity.

                                   Peace be with you, and drive as if your life depended on it,
                                   it does.  Tom. E

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, April 25, 2012 at 7:14 pm Link to this comment

                                   My mother asked me more than once that since I was an Atheist,
                                   why did I spend so much time reading about religion especially
                                   Christianity. Well to me the answer was obvious but I would
                                   patiently explain to her that I am surrounded by it an it
                                   behooves me to learn what it is an understand it. A logical
                                   conclusion for me but not her. But then she thought that
                                   somehow it was Christianity was a minority in the USA. Even
                                   now it is still over 70% here. I read other religions an those
                                   that are now considered only myth.

                                   Report this
                                   THE SNED's avatar

                                   By THE SNED, April 25, 2012 at 6:50 pm Link to this comment

                                   Syn… all I admitted to was no real interest the distant past.
                                   And you’re right. I
                                   am not much of a reader of books, though 90 % of what I have
                                   read are books
                                   on religion and almost all of them on Christianity and most of
                                   them written by
                                   Christians or ex Christians.  I also read science magazines. I
                                   compose music. I
                                   cartoon..and do a lot of stuff it seems that you don’t. And so
                                   goes the world. I
                                   also like to do my own thinking and on my own decades ago
                                   realized that time
                                   does not exist…a subject matter that is only now being
                                   discussed in science
                                   programs, although some came to that conclusion 2000+ years
                                   ago. That iced
                                   the cake for my doubts about god…although I don’t say there is
                                   no god, just
                                   that I see no reason believe in one.  I just took a “cough
                                   cough” college course
                                   on the major religions by a prof who was hell bent on proving
                                   the validity of
                                   Christianity…so I became the proverbial thorn in his side. I
                                   was very happy to
                                   realize that fully 1/4rd of the class were non-believers.
                                   Perhaps you have an
                                   opinion on whether or not a teacher of many religions should
                                   reveal his or her
                                   bias up front.  I think it should be on the table.  I had to
                                   drag it out of this
                                   person but many of the believer kids don’t get it. Imagine a
                                   third grade level of
                                   understanding being taught at the college level. It’s sick. So
                                   we have fun in our
                                   own sweet ways…and that’s the way it should be. My favorite
                                   books? “Bible
                                   myths and their parallels in other religions” by Doan, and
                                   “Putting Away
                                   Childish things” by Uta Ranke Heinemann.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By Tom Edgar, April 23, 2012 at 4:33 pm Link to this comment

                                   I note the concern for the pending change in format
                                   delivery..  I ask. Is this concern merely those emotions that
                                   are always raised when “Change” takes place and the familiar
                                   disappears?

                                   Is there not a touch of the “Conspiratorial” in the concerns,
                                   or are those worries genuine?

                                   That being said, as we aren’t in control of the destiny nor
                                   the direction that this manifesto will take what can we do
                                   about it, precious little from my perspective.

                                   In the main we are but exercising a little bit of
                                   intelligence, and I suggest maybe we are only trying to
                                   justify, and strengthen, our point of view to OURSELVES as I
                                   think we influence very few others.

                                   Americans amongst us have a greater concern than we who are
                                   not suffering from the persecution shown to those who embrace
                                   atheism in the “Free” U S A.

                                   On a personal level my only regret, on this column, is that I
                                   really do not know the personalities, domicile, and lifestyle,
                                   or even names of my co conspirators,  apart from that I enjoy
                                   the company, even of those I pity, and find so intellectually
                                   frustrating when the raise their serpent like heads in our
                                   garden of enlightenment.

                                   On occasion I do wonder if the code names are actually a
                                   person I have known and met.  I strongly suspect so of at
                                   least one, but am duty bound not to acknowledge that identity
                                   here. As,in my country, there is nothing to fear from being an
                                   atheist as this encompasses a very large slice of the
                                   population, there is no need to hide behind a pseudonym.  I
                                   sincerely hope that one day the U S A will also be emancipated
                                   in this area.

                                   My recent stay in hospital was enlightening.  At any time the
                                   ward held five patients.  New ones came, and the recovered
                                   left over the ten day period. Chaplains only visited by
                                   request.  In all that time only once was there a religious
                                   visitor and that to an elderly (my age) Chilean Roman Catholic
                                   who had only been in our country a year. He was enthralled
                                   that I had been, on several occasions in the past, to Ireland
                                   as he was under the misapprehension that country was a
                                   European bastion of his faith.  He was really upset when I
                                   told him that Ireland’s intense religiosity was a thing of the
                                   past, now only evidenced by the elderly, the young being
                                   better educated.  As one other patient remarked Jose only
                                   brightened up when someone brought him a (Spanish) Bible, in
                                   which he immersed himself.  Don’t knock it,  for him it was a
                                   comfort.

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, April 23, 2012 at 8:15 am Link to this comment

                                   Thank you Shenonymous for your kindness. However I am
                                   concerned too since this site isn’t the only one about to
                                   change how they are accessed. I recall for several years there
                                   have been general warnings about turning the Internet into a
                                   two tier system. The ones with the money get all the best
                                   premium treatment an capacity. An those of us in the majority
                                   will have to suffer not having the speed an reliability an
                                   adds etc. Let us hope this isn’t the first shot across our bow
                                   on that.

                                   Report this
                                   Shenonymous's avatar

                                   By Shenonymous, April 22, 2012 at 5:38 pm Link to this comment

                                   You are too generous Tom Edgar.  Night-Gaunt too.  I have been
                                   an academic for so many years and have had to learn a Library
                                   of
                                   Congress just to keep up with students, the reality is,,, have
                                   to keep
                                   ahead of them!  Also writing papers is a professional
                                   requirement. 
                                   Defending one’s thesis is part of the training.  Sometimes I
                                   think I
                                   might be too meticulous, but less in this case would not be
                                   adequate. 
                                   But experience is often just as valuable as book larnin’ in
                                   building a
                                   repository of knowledge.

                                   The advantage to having knowledge, I think, is how one
                                   integrates it
                                   into one’s thinking.  You’ve consistently shown remarkable
                                   ability in the
                                   reasoning department, Tom.  Your writing is impeccable and I
                                   always
                                   look forward to your comments.

                                   Since we are taking a moment for admiration, I’ll say I’ve
                                   appreciated N-
                                   G’s comments lo these many years as well.  I sure hope we are
                                   not in the
                                   twilight of Truthdig.

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, April 22, 2012 at 4:58 pm Link to this comment

                                   Shenonymous is an expert in researching. She has been trained
                                   that way. An when I first saw her work here several years ago
                                   I felt the same way. So I sympathize with you Tom Edgar but
                                   don’t let it stop you from commenting.

                                   Report this
                                   Shenonymous's avatar

                                   By Shenonymous, April 22, 2012 at 4:10 pm Link to this comment

                                   THE SNED, It doesn’t sound like you like to read too much. 
                                   But if
                                   you do, you might also perhaps benefit from Farhat-Holzman’s
                                   Strange Birds from Zoroaster’s Nest:  An Overview of Revealed
                                   Religions (I see I misspelled Birds in my note to Night-Gaunt,
                                   my bad).  She gives a credible account of the beginnings of
                                   revealed
                                   religions, that is, the Abrahamic Religions of Judaism,
                                   Christianity,
                                   and Islam and Buddhism. Revealed religions rest on the notion
                                   that
                                   god revealed his will or desires to someone who then
                                   transmitted god’s
                                   revelation to others. For instance, Judaism believes Moses had
                                   a
                                   discussion with God who gave him the ten commandments by which
                                   the
                                   Jews were to live.  Christians usually believe that god, in
                                   the form of
                                   Christ, revealed his will to his disciples, who then spread
                                   the word to
                                   others. Mohammad was the recipient of a revelation from Allah
                                   that
                                   resulted in the Qu’ran. Since Siddhartha taught the way to
                                   enlighten-
                                   ment, Buddhism is considered as his having revealed the middle
                                   way to
                                   all unenlightened beings.  Taoism and Confucianism on the
                                   other hand,
                                   are non-revealed religions.  This means there is no important
                                   revelation
                                   in either that must be taught to others. Instead, everything
                                   that can be
                                   known about Taoism or Confucianism can be known by you without
                                   anyone else absolutely needing to tell you about it. You can
                                   learn it all
                                   on your own—at least in theory.  Of course, I believe all
                                   religions are
                                   inventions by human minds.  Even so, they are most interesting
                                   in
                                   illustrating just how creative the human thinking can get.

                                   She also considered Hinduism, Buddhism, as well as the
                                   religions of
                                   ancient western Greeks and Romans.  The only criticism I have
                                   of the
                                   text is that it lacks an index.  But some of the chapter
                                   headings are:
                                   1. The Mystery of Human Religion (I think the use of the
                                   adjective Human
                                       is superfluous or redundant, since no other animal has
                                   religion, oh
                                       well)
                                   2. The Common Stream of Human Religion
                                   3. Beyond Priests and Human Sacrifice:  Human Responsibility
                                   4.  Good and evil:  No Shades of Gray
                                   5., 6., 7.,
                                   8. Zoroastrian Concepts in World Religions
                                   9. & 10.
                                   Epilogue:  The Future of Religion

                                   She might be right or not but she makes some good observations
                                   nonetheless.  She provides some good bases for discussion.

                                   Seems to me that to understand what is going on in religions
                                   today
                                   and their ascendance to power, their origins have to be
                                   understood if
                                   anyone wants to overcome their influence on any significant
                                   scale.  It
                                   has taken millennia to develop and indubitably is now in the
                                   collective
                                   consciousness of the societies in which they thrive.  Carl
                                   Sagan is my
                                   hero and I read his Demon Haunted World regularly just to get
                                   re-centered sometimes from the effects of a world that seems
                                   to have
                                   gone mad.  He does not make the claim that science has any
                                   absolute
                                   truth.  And certainly religions cannot provide it.  What he
                                   says about
                                   science applies also to religion, “that we cannot affect our
                                   own lives let
                                   alone a nation or the world to make intelligent decisions if
                                   we do not
                                   understand the underlying issues or causes.”

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By Tom Edgar, April 22, 2012 at 3:57 pm Link to this comment

                                   She.. You put us to shame.  Babes in the wood are we.
                                   I may be more concise and brief but I put that down to having
                                   so much less knowledge, and lack your ability and expertise. I
                                   concede.  Tom

                                   Report this
                                   THE SNED's avatar

                                   By THE SNED, April 22, 2012 at 2:03 pm Link to this comment

                                   Shenonymous….appreciate the lessons. I’m sure I over
                                   simplified but it had to
                                   take generations before humans were able to express themselves
                                   in art as in
                                   the cave of France that dates back some 25,000 years with
                                   exquisite animal
                                   paintings.

                                   Personally I admire primitive cultures. (see my post Jan 17)
                                   They are as much a
                                   part of the planet as an insect, animal or tree. While we
                                   “civilized” people, and
                                   especially Christians (as a whole) have only come to recognize
                                   in the past 2-3
                                   decades or so that without nature we have nothing…and are
                                   nothing.

                                   I wouldn’t doubt for a minute that the great majority of us
                                   will die from a
                                   plague, and many of those primitive tribes will survive. And
                                   It won’t take much
                                   to see how barbaric we can all become in a few days of crisis
                                   because we are
                                   so dependent on others, while the primitive tribes are all
                                   self sufficient.  My
                                   opinion on the ancients carries no weight…just my own. And I
                                   am far more
                                   interested in today’s religious mess, which seems to have no
                                   relationship
                                   whatsoever to the past, except that some took on the role of
                                   spiritual guide
                                   etc.

                                   Report this
                                   Shenonymous's avatar

                                   By Shenonymous, April 22, 2012 at 3:31 am Link to this comment

                                   THE SNED, the whole idea of paleontology, archaeology, and
                                   anthropology is to provide empirical proof of what it is the
                                   scientists
                                   are studying, investigating, examining. Empirical means hard
                                   evidence,
                                   tangible, physical.  So their conjectures are a little bit
                                   (meaning a lot)
                                   more substantial than guessing.  Of course you may believe
                                   what
                                   you want.
                                                         “Shamanistic Traditions”
                                   The peoples of prehistoric times and primitive cultures have
                                   laid the
                                   groundwork for modern consciousness exploration. Our knowledge
                                   of these groups comes from archeological or anthropological
                                   observa-
                                   tion. In some cases, researchers have lived for long periods
                                   in the
                                   wilderness with primitive peoples. We will find that return to
                                   the wilder-
                                   ness has been used throughout history to explore the deeper
                                   layers of
                                   the psyche.  The way of perceiving the world that emphasizes
                                   the
                                   existence of spirits, ghosts, and gods who interact with men
                                   and inhabit
                                   objects is called animism. Animism characterizes virtually all
                                   primitive
                                   and ancient cultures. In many languages, the word for spirit
                                   is also the
                                   word for breath—which leaves the body at death. Spirits could
                                   occupy
                                   the bodies of living men and animals causing either illness or
                                   insanity,
                                   but they often imparted higher wisdom. Psychic powers were
                                   ascribed to
                                   aid from such spirits. Also commonly found in primitive
                                   cultures is the
                                   correlative belief in a general spiritual force, or mana,
                                   permeating all of
                                   nature.

                                   Evidence from cave art, daring back at least 30,000 years,
                                   suggests
                                   caves were used for magical ritual purposes. In certain cases
                                   it must
                                   have been necessary to crawl for hours through the caves in
                                   order to
                                   reach the locale of the artwork and related artifacts. It may
                                   be that
                                   solitude inside such a cavern was an initiation technique used
                                   to explore
                                   the inner realms of being. Markings on antlers and bones
                                   indicate that
                                   people made notations of the phases of the moon as long as
                                   30,000
                                   years ago and suggest that the cave rituals and other cultural
                                   practices
                                   had a seasonal or periodical orientation.  It has been
                                   suggested that
                                   prehistoric people may have been sensitive to different phases
                                   in the
                                   lunar cycle as special times for meditation. The monumental
                                   Stone-
                                   henge, built in prehistoric England, is oriented towards
                                   equinoxes,
                                   solstices and lunar eclipses during the equinox and suggests
                                   similar
                                   usage.

                                   There are more reports of hard evidence, and most natural art
                                   museums
                                   have plenty of it, so you might spend sometime in one or two,
                                   it might
                                   be enlightening.

                                   Zoroaster’s thoughts about gods, Night-Gaunt, was the
                                   beginning of ‘all’
                                   modern religions.  If you like reading you might try the
                                   amazing book by
                                   Laina Farhat-Holzman, “Strange Bids from Zoroaster’s Nest: An
                                   Over-
                                   view of Revealed Religions.”  A very good used copy can found
                                   at
                                   Amazon for about $2.75.

                                   Report this
                                   THE SNED's avatar

                                   By THE SNED, April 22, 2012 at 12:45 am Link to this comment

                                   Shenonymous:  I admit to having never read a paragraph on the
                                   creation of
                                   shaman. And the authors of those references have to guess
                                   also, and might
                                   not even provide a guess. And they could be wrong…or partially
                                   wrong. For
                                   sure there is no written history of how it happened, and the
                                   odds are my guess
                                   had to happen, if not once many times. Why? Good old common
                                   sense. If we
                                   can imagine it…it probably happened. Once it occurred to one
                                   of these
                                   magicians that this was a “business”... or a good thing…the
                                   concept probably
                                   spread like wild fire among friends from neighboring tribes.
                                   It’s somewhat
                                   related to the gays flocking to become Catholic clergy,
                                   because it gave them a
                                   job and was the perfect place to hide the truth…in a
                                   homophobic environment.
                                   (And given the amount of discrimination they suffered over the
                                   millenia, who
                                   could blame them?) But showing a shaman in a cave painting has
                                   to be way way
                                   after the fact. I would imagine that the costume came last. If
                                   I recall correctly
                                   the first Eve is traced back to 300,000 b.c. (although David
                                   Attenborough in a
                                   recent TV program on man’s survival on the planet indicated it
                                   was only
                                   100,000 years. In any case 30,000 isn’t primitive enough for
                                   me. But I must
                                   admit, Annie it is my theory, and I appreciate the provided
                                   references.

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, April 21, 2012 at 6:56 pm Link to this comment

                                   The original point of religion in all of its manifestations
                                   was to also explain why things are an what motivates them. to
                                   me Judaism, Islam an Christianity are no more real than Zeus
                                   or Danae or Asura Mazda. Just wonderfully elaborate creations
                                   of fecund human minds to explain the unexplainable. Oh it had
                                   other functions including empowering certain women an men to
                                   leadership. To be called upon as directly related familiarly
                                   to the gods. Direct descendants as it were. God-kings which
                                   there are a few left in places like Japan, Britain an Spain
                                   for example. The Sun-Kings who wielded power absolute. But
                                   then in Europe the Catholic Church (Catholic means universal)
                                   shared power with the kings an sometimes were usurped by them
                                   like Napoleon the First did when he crowned himself. Some
                                   among our leadership both in an outside of gov’t want such
                                   power or at least allowed to operate independently of it as
                                   they see fit. They would like it here as they have in other
                                   weaker countries. We shall see if they get it or not. We are
                                   ripe for such a loss of our Republic sad to say.

                                   Report this
                                   Shenonymous's avatar

                                   By Shenonymous, April 21, 2012 at 12:27 pm Link to this
                                   comment

                                   It is all right to have a personal theory about anything
                                   really, even
                                   such things as shamans.  It could appear to be quite
                                   preposterous
                                   that a primitive society could be sophisticated enough to
                                   “create
                                   characters” smart enough to think they had spoken or
                                   interacted
                                   with deities, imagined for sure, for we cannot suppose they
                                   did in
                                   fact interact with deities.  But then that is not so far
                                   fetched since
                                   we can see what has happened throughout history as religious
                                   practice.  But, THE SNED, there are plenty of counterfacts to
                                   your
                                   doubts.

                                   Anthropologists, archaeologists, and historians specializing
                                   in primitive
                                   cultures provide plenty of evidence (yes, empirical evidence
                                   that shows
                                   precisely such magicmen did in fact exist and promoted
                                   panpsychism,
                                   and exercised much influence over their tribes. 

                                   Mircea Eliade’s ”Shamanism: Archaic Techniques of Ecstacy”
                                   and Paul Radin’s, {i]”The World of Primitive Man,” and
                                   particularly
                                   Michael Harner’s ”The Way of the Shaman,” and ”Shamans
                                   Through Time,” by Jeremy Narby, Jeffrey Russel’s ”A History
                                   of Witchcraft: Sorcerers, heretics, and Pagans,” and the
                                   article
                                   ”Shamanic Origins of Religion and Medicine “ in the Journal of
                                   Psychedelic Drugs, Vol. 11 (1-2) Jan-Jun, 1979, by Weston la
                                   Barre,
                                   American anthro-pologist and his textbook study, ”The Ghost
                                   Dance
                                   Origins of Religion”, studied this topic for decades, writes
                                   dancing
                                   sorcerers date from the late Old Stone Age (Paleolithic c.
                                   2000000 – c.
                                   10000 B.C) and can be physically seen in the illustrations in
                                   the cave of
                                   Trois Freres in southern France, where is seen drawing and
                                   painted on
                                   the cave wall a man dressed up in the skins of various animals
                                   which
                                   were hunted for food, and over which his ritual dance had
                                   power.  In
                                   terms of dating, http://www.williamjames.com/History/
                                   SHAMANS.htm 
                                   also gives information that more than 30,000 years ago cave
                                   artists
                                   illustrated shamans led tribes in ritualistic practices.  That
                                   is pretty
                                   primitive enough, I think.  la Barre further wrote that “The
                                   world’s old-
                                   est profession is not prostitution, but actually is that of
                                   the shaman
                                   or first professional.  The shaman is ancestor not only to
                                   both the
                                   modern medicine man or doctor and the religion is priest or
                                   divine,
                                   but also ancestor in direct lineage to a host of other
                                   professional types.
                                   It would seem odd that both the doctor, the most
                                   secular-minded, and
                                   the divine “shaman,” the most sacred-minded of modern helpers
                                   of
                                   people, should derive from the same source. But we can readily
                                   under-
                                   stand the seeming paradox when we recognize the basic nature
                                   and
                                   function of the primitive medicine man of shaman.”

                                   All of these references (and I could provide many, many more)
                                   sort of,
                                   well not really sort of, but actually give Leefeller’s and
                                   Becker’s ideas a
                                   bit more credibility than your unreferenced intuitions.

                                   Just a bit of primitive man biblical trivia:  Exodus 22:18
                                   says, ”You
                                   shall not permit a kashaph to live,” which in Hebrew means
                                   magician,
                                   diviner, sorcerer, or one with a familiar spirit.  In central
                                   and southern
                                   America, church authorities with the aid of the colonial
                                   administrators
                                   put to death thousands of people accusing them of witchcraft.

                                   Report this
                                   THE SNED's avatar

                                   By THE SNED, April 21, 2012 at 10:02 am Link to this comment

                                   Leefeller “According to anthropologists like Becker the first
                                   religion was
                                   formulated by shamans who reaped the opportunity of saying
                                   they spoke or
                                   understood the gods and why things are as they are”

                                   I have my doubts about this theory. Why? Because my own theory
                                   makes more
                                   sense to me, and represents a more primitive man. To have
                                   created characters I
                                   can only call shysters, or hucksters requires quite an
                                   advanced society that
                                   trades frequently with others outside the group and has a
                                   fairly large
                                   population. Step back to an earlier age where tribes are self
                                   more sufficient and
                                   the shyster/huckster is an unlikely personality to have
                                   appeared. Liars? Maybe.
                                   Thieves..now and then. But not huckster/shaman. There’s no
                                   room for that kind
                                   of human. Not yet. The idea would wear thin too fast. He or
                                   she would be found
                                   out quickly.

                                   We know that primitives had to have been perplexed by nature.
                                   They thought
                                   something was out there that they did not understand.
                                   Something that was very
                                   powerful. Let’s say there’s a drought and these people have no
                                   idea what to do
                                   or where to go. Somebody suggests that they try to appease the
                                   powers.
                                   Eventually someone either suggests something that works, or is
                                   identified by
                                   the group as having some luck/influence/ with that power. It’s
                                   possible that a
                                   woman, in desperation, threw some meat outside the cave and a
                                   storm stopped
                                   suddenly, or it rained suddenly. (Sooner or later there’s a
                                   coincidence between
                                   man and nature that looks and feels like a miracle Like
                                   Fatima)...So one
                                   individual is looked at with awe…and is given special special
                                   consideration by
                                   the group. And once that person is given power he or she will
                                   not give it up
                                   ..and might even believe it to be true. Hence the first
                                   clergy…then you get to
                                   Constantine thousands of years later and he and later emperors
                                   get the clergy
                                   involved in politics,  pagans are murdered for centuries and
                                   you have the mess
                                   we have now. It’s all about power…and fraud…lies…..and
                                   hucksterism.
                                   Something Grin doesn’t understand because he reads only what
                                   he wants to
                                   read…..and doesn’t look at religion with a critical eye. He
                                   wants to getto
                                   heaven…and believes there’s a recipie to get in. If there is a
                                   god SHe must
                                   respect intelligence. It’s her invention…we’re just sue it.
                                   Faith abuses it.

                                   Report this
                                   Shenonymous's avatar

                                   By Shenonymous, April 21, 2012 at 9:28 am Link to this comment

                                   Ignore this second post.  I accidentally removed notification
                                   for new
                                   comments to this forum.

                                   Report this
                                   Shenonymous's avatar

                                   By Shenonymous, April 21, 2012 at 9:22 am Link to this comment

                                   No need (ahem), Leefeller, to concern yourself with your use
                                   of the
                                   word ‘need.’  I may not have been clear in my post that in the
                                   context
                                   about which I was referring its use was limited to the
                                   implication there
                                   was an inherent status of, or genetic programming, a
                                   predisposition
                                   for religious tendency, that is, that there is a god-gene. 

                                   Your offer of a social contract (yes, I am borrowing the term
                                   from
                                   the political/sociological philosophers) that you will not
                                   impose your
                                   unbelief on those who believe if they will not impose their
                                   belief on
                                   your choice to not believe is all well and good and I think a
                                   moral
                                   one.

                                   However, the problem lies in the self-imposed need of
                                   religionists to
                                   impose their belief on others. It is their “mission,” their
                                   divine assign-
                                   ment to call all into their herd.  What are those which are
                                   being prosely-
                                   tized to do?  What does one do to the one(s) attempting
                                   coercion to
                                   believe and must become part of the flock?  Let those
                                   Christians and
                                   Islamists who would respect your right to be atheist, or
                                   Buddhist, or
                                   Zoroastrian (one can only be a Zoroastrian through family
                                   ties), or be
                                   anything but be Christian or Islamist be named and put on a
                                   list and
                                   those who won’t be put on another list so that we can all walk
                                   on eggs,
                                   or if you prefer, thin ice and have utter respect for the
                                   blade either sword
                                   or scimitar?  All very benevolent and righteously godly,
                                   wouldn’t you say? 
                                   Greece prohibits all proselytism, see the WIkiP article:
                                   Proselytism at
                                   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proselytism#Other_religions

                                   Report this
                                   Leefeller's avatar

                                   By Leefeller, April 21, 2012 at 6:17 am Link to this comment

                                   She, I may have written the word ‘need’ out of context to
                                   Hoffers works, for I was working from memory and do not have
                                   ‘The True Believer’ in my presence. It is very possible I over
                                   reached in my rant, but this is what ranting does, makes one
                                   feel better?

                                   Same for you Night Gaunt, ‘Outliers’ brings to mind people
                                   living somewhere in a ‘Mad Max Movie’ which may be today as it
                                   appears, closer then we know? When I hear the word ‘Renegade’
                                   I recall cowboy and Indian movies.

                                   NG, ominous does not seem appropriate in after thought, I will
                                   dig into the archives of my Tequila soaked mind for a worthy
                                   option. 

                                   Anyway God does not exist in me mind, but I have my
                                   suspensions about Santa Claus! I still feel it would be nice
                                   if people kept their pet proclivities to themselves, sort of
                                   like their sexual preferences and their superstitious ones
                                   too!

                                   How about this, is this doable? I will respect your belief if
                                   you will respect my unbelief? Can this work?
                                   Manni and I have agreed to it and I now feel uncomfortable
                                   belittling his beliefs and would hope he homered his part of
                                   the agreement. Can differences exist together?

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, April 20, 2012 at 2:36 pm Link to this comment

                                   I never thought of “outliers” as being ominous myself. Just
                                   not part of the main cluster. Which is how it looks in a 2D or
                                   3D representation of it. Evolution in many cases has such in
                                   its make up. Is that biological or mathematical or both? We
                                   Atheists are outliers. We crop up seemingly randomly but the
                                   genes needed an what is turned on an off for them are so
                                   widely dispersed it just seems that way. However environment
                                   too plays an important part.

                                   Grin2010 there is no God just people. Does that answer your
                                   question? Your god concept is too small for just this universe
                                   much less any others out there an dimensions. I would ask you
                                   to raise your IQ points some. (It can be done as I have in the
                                   past.)

                                   Just one quick question, Night, before saying good night.

                                   If “The need to believe, the urge to believe is an
                                   evolutionary trait”, is true and I believe it is to be true.
                                   If it is true, who is to say that it will not be the “flexible
                                   ones” who will expire during this continuous evolutionary
                                   process. An evolutionary trait as strong as eye color will be
                                   hard to change its course. If you could stop the birds from
                                   naturally migrated south for winter, you may have a chance my
                                   brother. -Mike W

                                   Because if you understand what flexibility means you wouldn’t
                                   ask such a question. Even Charles Darwin understood that was
                                   the superior trait. Not aggression, not intelligence, not
                                   viciousness but flexibility. The ability to take on a change
                                   in environment an survive an thrive. What some say is why the
                                   Neanderthal died out but Homo Sapient didn’t. Even though the
                                   N’s were taller, stronger, had larger brains an had survive 3
                                   previous Ice Ages they still died out. (The big question is
                                   why?) Was it that Homos were more ferocious? More intelligent?
                                   More flexible in their adaptions like not being held to rigid
                                   conservative ways of living an thinking? That question has
                                   still not been fully answered yet. But even with their demise
                                   they didn’t leave without leaving some of their traits in us
                                   in our genome.

                                   However it has been found that there are genes working in
                                   concert not just one gene for any trait by itself. An it would
                                   manifest in the brain structure wouldn’t it?

                                   And it has been shown that certain kinds of people are more
                                   inclined to accept supernatural things from pixies to
                                   invisible entities. An for them they might even “see” them too
                                   even if others with them cannot. It is all in the brain an the
                                   brain is a manifestation of our DNA. And the brain won’t be
                                   fully mapped an studied for some time to come but we are
                                   getting tantalizing glimpses of it.

                                   IN the “Unleashed Mind” in Scientific American Mind May/June
                                   2011 Shelly Carson talks about an examine highly creative
                                   people who are also odd an eccentric. Like one of the more
                                   recent was was the late Dean Kamen of a long line of
                                   eccentrics who were also artists, authors an such creative
                                   people an yet weren’t “normal.” Charles Dickens is said to
                                   have fended off imaginary urchins with his umbrella as he
                                   wanted the streets of London. There are many others. And they
                                   all know an knew they weren’t fitting in. An now science has
                                   an answer.

                                   Research by brain imaging, creativity study, an molecular
                                   biology suggests that these perceptions are not based on a few
                                   anecdotal accounts. That “weirdness” an creativity are linked.
                                   It has come down to how the brain filters impressions in these
                                   people they seem to get more input that most people never see
                                   or hear or are aware of. Now this has been known, that such
                                   creative people are strange for some time. Both Plato &
                                   Aristotle made note of how the playwrights an poets were a
                                   peculiar lot. That an the connexion of depression with
                                   creativity that was proven this century. Even the Italian
                                   Criminologist Caesar Lombroso of +100 years ago noted in his
                                   book “The Man of Genius” that this behavior is the same
                                   hereditary “degeneration” that marked violent criminals.

                                   Report this
                                   Leefeller's avatar

                                   By Leefeller, April 20, 2012 at 12:10 pm Link to this comment

                                   According to anthropologists like Becker the first religion
                                   was formulated by shamans who reaped the opportunity of saying
                                   they spoke or understood the gods and why things are as they
                                   are, I guess Shamans worked with the Chiefs even back then to
                                   make their own lives easier and more enjoyable compared to the
                                   common cave person.  So it goes, the Shamans supported by the
                                   chief worked it out, so both received gifts, did not need to
                                   sweat and hunt and probably had their choice of foxiest hairy
                                   butt maidens depending on their personal proclivities at the
                                   time, well when you compare them to the proclivities of
                                   Catholics Shamans of today. .  So for the common person of the
                                   time they where duped just like people are duped by the pope
                                   and their fearless leaders in the 21st sentry.  It seemed like
                                   a ‘grab what you want card’  back in the day, not much has
                                   changed today.

                                   The need for people to have things explained to them was
                                   needed (the word need) so the appearance of alleged experts on
                                   the subject, the connectors of the unknown still bodes well
                                   today, even as we sip our cappuccinos and in my case Tequilas.

                                   Then there is death, the fate of the dead is a powerful claim
                                   not taken lightly by those who demand explanations, again a
                                   need to know. All the fears of the unknown have influenced the
                                   lives of humans since humans decided to let superstition be
                                   sold to them by tribe to tribe opportunists who claimed to
                                   know what no body else know, so we had the working up cave
                                   guys propagated their terrors of the unknown, working on those
                                   fears.

                                   So tis, the fears over disease, death, starvation, pain and
                                   suffering where addressed by the all knowing shaman, again
                                   little has changed, it is gods will or Clydes, depending on
                                   who ones god happens to be.  For the Shaman who was working on
                                   the blarney stone before its time, the grand prize was to
                                   explain the most frighting big bad wolf of all,... death! Now
                                   I present to you the afterlife, heaven, Valhalla, the list
                                   goes on the most used tool in history, the sludge hammer of
                                   fear.

                                   In the end what is called; “The Fallacy of the God Gene “
                                   should be more appropriately called ‘The Phallic Symbol of the
                                   god Genie”!

                                   Leefeller Guy

                                   Report this
                                   Shenonymous's avatar

                                   By Shenonymous, April 20, 2012 at 7:24 am Link to this comment

                                   Hey Tom, nice to see you back, both as a regular member and an
                                   ?
                                   unregistered member.  LOL!  All this webbusiness will correct
                                   itself ?
                                   over time.  I think many of the truthdippers are experiencing
                                   a
                                   ?melange of posting problems that is not the members’ fault. 
                                   I
                                   ?received a similar advice from CommonDreams.  They are
                                   changing?
                                   their format as well.  So it looks like there are evildoers in
                                   the ?
                                   blogosphere doing their dastardly deeds????  I advise being
                                   careful
                                   ?not to post personal information anywhere.  I do not do
                                   Facebook
                                   ?nor have time for twitting, what a word!  Life is too short
                                   and packed
                                   with much more interesting things to do.

                                   Leefeller, April 19 at 7:13 am says this a.m.

                                       A while back, I asked, why cannot they keep it to
                                       themselves and it was answered by Eric Hoffers book;
                                       “The True Believer” simply put, some people need
                                       a cause and it seems the blinder the better. For religious
                                       causes are no different then any unleashed dogma.

                                       Hoffer makes a great point when he says people with
                                       causes need to promote there cause out of some sort
                                       of grievance or need and there is the comfort of not
                                       being alone, the companionship, in the end the blind
                                       cause can become so important in the individuals life,
                                       they lose individuality and become the cause, this is the
                                       fanatic according to Hoffer and this is how I find so many
                                       people blinded by their dogmas.

                                   Without intending to ‘parse’ words, but words are all we have
                                   on these
                                   forums, in the quote above, I purposely bolded the ‘need’
                                   twice used. 
                                   Inasmuch as the word ‘cause’ accompanies the two instances of
                                   the
                                   word ‘need’, an implication of deeper emotion-based cause/
                                   effect
                                   questions exists.  What is significant about that is an
                                   assumption of
                                   a metaphysic, beyond ordinary thought, beyond ordinary
                                   emotional
                                   thought.  The idea of ‘need’ implies something indispensible,
                                   in this
                                   case an emotional reaction that is inherent, innate, genetic,
                                   evolution-
                                   ary.  Perhaps it is, but there is not enough discussion here
                                   to make that
                                   assumption without back up references.  One theory is that if
                                   religion is
                                   an inherent need, then the logic leads to the conclusion must
                                   be based
                                   on verifiable reasoning and only empirical testing will
                                   provide verifica-
                                   tion. Premises have to be based on authenticated rationale. If
                                   there is
                                   an inherent need for religion (and two of the three of the
                                   Abrahmaic
                                   strain demand metaphysical causes), then the logic concludes,
                                   without
                                   empirical evidence, that there must be that “god gene” of the
                                   kind
                                   Mike W mentioned earlier. 

                                   Geneticist, Dean Hamer, in his book, The God Gene: How Faith
                                   is
                                   Hardwired into our Genes, theorizes its title.  (Just a
                                   whispered aside: 
                                   Greens and other third-parties might be ecstatic because it
                                   would
                                   presuppose there is a “natural” proclivity, that is, a gene
                                   that could
                                   be responsible for any number of beliefs, peculiar or not. 
                                   They could
                                   claim with all legitimacy that their devotion to the
                                   environment, etc.,
                                   was perfectly compatible with gene theory).

                                   But then the gene involved, the VMAT2, counterargues Carl
                                   Zimmer,
                                   science journalist for Scientific American, writes in his 2004
                                   article, 
                                   “Faith-Boosting Genes: A search for the genetic basis of
                                   spirituality”.
                                   Scientific American, and PZ Meyers, scientist and biology
                                   professor
                                   (Univ. Minnesota, Morris) in his article,  “No god, and no
                                   ‘god gene’,
                                   either”. Pharyngula say the gene in question might be
                                   necessary
                                   in brain activity of transmitting higher order processing, but
                                   there is
                                   no evidence in the least that it has anything to do with
                                   ‘religious’ belief.

                                   Report this
                                   Shenonymous's avatar

                                   By Shenonymous, April 20, 2012 at 7:16 am Link to this comment

                                   2.
                                   The idea that this age is spiritless, is not in any way an
                                   unqualified
                                   fact since what is spiritual has not been defined, has nothing
                                   but
                                   unproved opinion, and therefore, cannot be a reason to
                                   theorize with
                                   any shade of truth that there is a necessity for a god-gene to
                                   exist. 
                                   Spirit is more of an elusive chimera than what is called the
                                   mind.  But
                                   what we call the mind is diversionary fodder for another time.

                                   Besides, if it is a gene, then as a physical thing and it can
                                   be removed,
                                   as gene splicing is an activity of reality.  It would not make
                                   sense that
                                   if there was a god and it created a physical feature in humans
                                   and only
                                   in humans as no other animal exhibits a belief in a religion,
                                   that god
                                   would allow the gene to be removable! And yes, it would have
                                   to be
                                   scientifically removed.  And if removable then it could be
                                   moved from
                                   on individual to another to what?  Control the gene and its
                                   effect in
                                   what diabolical ways?  For surely we do not deny there would
                                   be evil
                                   men (like Hitler’s) who would use such genetic migration to
                                   effect
                                   certain religiousities.

                                   Atheism is not a religion.  Atheism is the antithesis of
                                   religion.  It is
                                   not a belief system, as systems go.  Atheism means without
                                   religion. 
                                   Nothing else follows. 

                                   It is almost unbelievable how many are the gullible.  But
                                   then, also
                                   reading Hoffer, it is not very far fetched.

                                   For a bit of esoteric fun,
                                   http://metabunk.org/threads/
                                   317-Debunked-FunVax-Pentagon-Briefing-on-Removing-the-God-Gene

                                   I have to be off to work right now, but Mike W I have a
                                   response to your
                                   post to me of April 19 at 6:24 pm that I will post this
                                   evening.  But to
                                   quickly address your first complaint, simply said, I do not
                                   believe a deity
                                   of any type exists.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By Tom Edgar, April 19, 2012 at 7:50 pm Link to this comment

                                   Oh I found a convoluted route to arrive back here.
                                   My last two submissions as a non registered commenter have not
                                   been published.  Disappointing as I thought I was being very
                                   perceptive.

                                   Mike W.  I would also not be an absolutist with regards to
                                   your “Possible” murder, even though on the prima facie
                                   evidence it certainly points that way.
                                   However just as in so many people’s interpretation of
                                   religious beliefs, or in this case, and paraphrasing the Porgy
                                   and Bess line.  Wishing don’t make it so.

                                   That religionists of any faith WANT to believe clouds their
                                   understanding and perception.  To stand apart and evaluate the
                                   evidence for and AGAINST a long cherished idealistic solution
                                   calls for higher intellectual characteristics than enjoyed by
                                   the average “Believer”.

                                   In the case of criminal actions, under the “Westminster”
                                   system the law requires a judgement “Beyond reasonable doubt”.
                                   I think that most atheists use this corollary in coming to
                                   their judgement that Religion, fails the test and is only held
                                   by the faithful because of their unreasonableness.

                                   As I stated earlier in the debate between Dawkins and the
                                   Australian R C. Cardinal, Archbishop Pell recently.  After
                                   fumbling and mumbling, Pell admitted he had no proofs just
                                   faith. Faith according to the dictionary is a stance held
                                   regardless of lack of proof.

                                   In defence of the premise that it isn’t worthy of debate may I
                                   recount of the time when I was in hospital, on a drip.  Oh the
                                   Priests, Pastors and Rabbis are there scenting a demising
                                   convert.  An Episcopalian overhearing me tell an “Over the
                                   Rainbow”, I wasn’t in any way superstitious said he would
                                   debate me that,  to which I responded that not one religion
                                   over another was worthy of a debate.

                                   Superstition and Religion being synonymous?  Well both are
                                   strongly (or weakly) held beliefs in unprovable outcomes.

                                   Now to all those questioning this divergence to “Facebook” (It
                                   now appears at the foot of this page.)  I ask admin .“What the
                                   hell is this Facebook?”.  I understand it is some sort of site
                                   where you can brag, blag or blather about oneself but other
                                   than that I have neither knowledge nor understanding except
                                   that, I am led to believe, the C E O was once the head of the
                                   C I A.  Now if this is true I can think of no better reason
                                   for not becoming a member.  What thinkest thou? Please clarify
                                   for me.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By Mike W, April 19, 2012 at 6:24 pm Link to this comment

                                   Shenonymous,

                                   Your position seems to state that an atheist (you) feel that
                                   no case has been presented so this is why you do not believe
                                   in supernatural places or beings. You also seem to say that
                                   because you feel that no case has been presented, it excludes
                                   you from even taking the ownership of your position. You are
                                   dismissing the “myth” so much that you say since the “case”
                                   does not exist, your “not-believing” can’t be even labeled
                                   “not believing” because there is “nothing” not to believe in.

                                   I say that is a crazy. Why not simply say that you do not
                                   believe… or you “accept”, based on the lack of evidence, “it”
                                   to be not true?
                                   You most likely want to distance yourself so much from theism
                                   that you dismiss it so strongly that you say the myth is so
                                   far out there, it is not even worthy enough to label it as one
                                   of the things that you disbelieve.


                                   So,,,as I read your comment, I also watched “The First 48” in
                                   “picture-in-picture”. It is a real life homicide show where
                                   the police try to solve the crime in the first 48 hrs if
                                   possible because that is the best opportunity to do so
                                   successfully.
                                   A father on the show informed the police that even with no
                                   evidence showing, no body, no gun, nothing but a missing
                                   daughter and a bloody car…, he believes with “all his heart”
                                   that her boyfriend was the one who killed her (if she is
                                   dead).

                                   So, it got me to expand my thinking. A family member of mine
                                   entered my mind. A female cousin dead in her garage, ruled a
                                   suicide then changed to accident on her part from prescription
                                   drugs, confusion, then accidental garage door shutting causing
                                   death.

                                   To make a long story short, “evidence” to many pointed to her
                                   husband. Marital problems, suitcase packed and hidden in
                                   closet, controlling, motive to keep child, money, 1st time
                                   cleaning out garage in years since moved in – finally car
                                   could enter, him being a cop authorized himself to move body
                                   and corrupt the scene,  etc. etc..
                                   However, to his family, there was no evidence of a murder.
                                   There was no case. They refused to believe in this myth. Any
                                   of the above points were irrelevant because they refused to
                                   believe she was murdered because in their hearts there was no
                                   murder. She died by her own actions, alone in her own home and
                                   it was heartbreaking to them, her husband and their child.
                                   Less than a year after my cousins death, a woman joined them
                                   in their “not accepting”, “not believing”, “A-Murder”. To this
                                   woman, this myth is just that – and not existing in reality –
                                   NOT TRUE. And, less than a year in putting his wife in the
                                   dirt (cousin on grounds of husbands jewish law, immediately
                                   buried no autopsy), married this woman. It sounds like the
                                   Drew Peterson Case but it is not, it is my case and my cousin
                                   Donna’s Case. But, for the new wife there was no case.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By grin1020, April 19, 2012 at 3:47 pm Link to this comment

                                   SNED -

                                   You said, “But I will always leave the door open to the
                                   possibility that we are creatures created by aliens. And using
                                   common sense perhaps you’d like to explain how your god came
                                   into being with all power etc etc etc.”

                                   Well you got me on that one SNED. Using common sense I cannot.
                                   There isn’t anything common about having faith. We believe
                                   because God chose us first. We see the application of science
                                   as a tool to validate the Bible but that certainly isn’t to
                                   say that I can sufficiently verbalize the many validations.
                                   There are scientific-sound apologists that are able to do
                                   that. Even with that said, if one doesn’t have the honest
                                   desire to listen to the apologists, there will be no
                                   acknowledgement of the truths that lay therein.

                                   In my own defense, I consider myself open-minded to the
                                   atheistic arguments; however I always return to examining
                                   nature and the fact that matter and energy left to its own,
                                   tends toward equilibrium…hardly a basis for living organisms.
                                   I certainly don’t have all the answers. Enough said.

                                   Report this
                                   Shenonymous's avatar

                                   By Shenonymous, April 19, 2012 at 7:17 am Link to this comment

                                   Chiming in late of 87 pages of comments! I’ve been directed to
                                   this
                                   thread a few times. Having read a few pages of comments no
                                   plan to
                                   read any more. There’s no rule one can’t join an ongoing
                                   discussion:

                                   Mike W, April 10 10:11 pm – It looks as if many misunderstand.
                                   It’s not

                                       if a person comes to the conclusion of ‘Atheism” A =
                                       without
                                       “Theism”’ for himself, he has accepted the belief of no
                                       heaven,
                                       no hell, no judgement day etc…”

                                   Atheists who understand their atheism say there is no reason
                                   to believe
                                   there are supernatural places or beings, no justification is
                                   offered that
                                   compels belief. It is not the case of ‘accepting’ a belief of
                                   no heaven, no
                                   hell, no judgment day, etc. It is the case that no case has
                                   been made for
                                   believing that those things exist. If evidence were provided,
                                   that would
                                   be a wonderful thing for the atheist. We would all rejoice.

                                   THE SNED, April 17 3:45 am - “I ?have just spent a semester in
                                   a college
                                   religion class and the kids who are ?believers have no desire
                                   to read
                                   anything that contradicts what they believe.” That is the
                                   point. The
                                   argument against a command religion is not whether or not a
                                   deity, any
                                   god, exists, but that there is no questioning religious
                                   doctrines in the
                                   Christian and Islamic Abrahamic religious tradition. To do so
                                   would be a
                                   heresy or apostatical, punishable both here on earth with
                                   torture or
                                   death, or in an alleged hereafter. While Judaism does not
                                   demand
                                   unquestioned belief it does have tenets and commandments. But
                                   “On the
                                   question of human nature, as in most areas of abstract belief
                                   in Judaism,
                                   there is a lot of room for personal opinion. There is no dogma
                                   on the
                                   subject, no required belief about the nature of humanity.
                                   There are a
                                   variety of contrary opinions expressed on the subject, and one
                                   is no less
                                   a Jew (and no less a good Jew) for disagreeing with any or all
                                   of these
                                   opinions.” http://www.jewfaq.org/beliefs.htm - As a contrast,
                                   see
                                   Hinduism http://www.religionfacts.com/hinduism/index.htm. For
                                   any
                                   religion, see http://www.religionfacts.com/

                                   April 16 4:51 am Your observation here parallels mine with
                                   respect to
                                   spending eternity in a boring heaven/hell or just hanging out
                                   with some
                                   supreme being who has an ego complex. It would be as boring as
                                   watching a cow chew its cud. I mean, can you imagine!?

                                   On what evidence do you base your comment, Mike W, April 17
                                   7:28 pm,
                                   “The need to believe, the urge to believe is an evolutionary
                                   trait just as
                                   much as eye color an natural ability?” If you are talking
                                   evolution, then
                                   you are talking science and not from a belief in a
                                   transcendent
                                   inexplicable, unpredictable agent or antecedents of human
                                   experience
                                   beyond the experiential world. You seem to be musing rather
                                   than
                                   presenting any coherent systematic organization of thought.
                                   One can
                                   apply any term metaphorically to human actions, such as using
                                   the word
                                   “worship” when talking about the attention paid to sports, but
                                   that is just
                                   a sloppy way of using words unless a 1 to 1 ratio is
                                   explicitly made.  It’s
                                   a common and rather vulgar use of the language, by the way.

                                   Procreation is not the sole effort of the religious. Atheists
                                   procreate as
                                   much, if not more often (no data collected here, mere
                                   conjecture based
                                   on experience, having had twins myself). Having a belief or no
                                   belief
                                   does not preclude a continuation of a species. Dogs and cats
                                   have no
                                   belief systems to speak of yet they continue to thrive and
                                   evolve over
                                   time as much as any living thing. Atheists are not dying off,
                                   but statistics
                                   show they are growing in number and religions are dwindling.
                                   Luck has
                                   nothing to do with it. It is simply said, consciousness.

                                   Having been one of those notified by Truthdig, it looks like
                                   Yahoo might
                                   be a viable path to more truthdipping. It seems to be a safe
                                   electronic
                                   haven.  I’ve no idea what was TD’s criteria for notification.
                                   Must be a
                                   plethora of reasons.

                                   Report this
                                   Leefeller's avatar

                                   By Leefeller, April 19, 2012 at 7:13 am Link to this comment

                                   Night Gaunt, outliers sounds ominous at first but other names
                                   seem to dove tail with outliers; ‘Renegade’ comes to mind and
                                   with less of a science fiction sound to it?

                                   ‘An atheist does not believe in the existence of god’ I may
                                   have miss quoted but this seems to be all there is to it in a
                                   nutshell.

                                   No temples, no on ones knees praying, no demanding or doing
                                   the constant carpet baggers sales pitch in which other become
                                   Atheists or unbelievers. ( though I may be wrong on this?) 
                                   This simple concept seems to escape those who demand to hawk
                                   their bill of goods for it seems their dogma is not house
                                   broke!

                                   A while back, I asked, why cannot they keep it to themselves
                                   and it was answered by Eric Hoffers book; “The True Believer”
                                   simply put, some people need a cause and it seems the blinder
                                   the better. For religious causes are no different then any
                                   unleashed dogma.

                                   At the time I had little understanding in why do people care
                                   if other people believe in what they believe? I for one do not
                                   give a rats butt if other people do not believe in god or
                                   Santa Claus, actually now when I think on it I have seen Santa
                                   Claus?  I do not stand on street corners or knock on strangers
                                   doors or erect Atheist temples in the name of my unbelief, but
                                   yet, there are those who say Atheism is a religion?

                                   Hoffer makes a great point when he says people with causes
                                   need to promote there cause out of some sort of grievance or
                                   need and there is the comfort of not being alone, the
                                   companionship, in the end the blind cause can become so
                                   important in the individuals life, they lose individuality and
                                   become the cause, this is the fanatic according to Hoffer and
                                   this is how I find so many people blinded by their dogmas.

                                   Yes outliers or renegades we may be, heretics and infidels to
                                   others we may be, to myself I just plain do not believe.

                                   Report this
                                   THE SNED's avatar

                                   By THE SNED, April 19, 2012 at 4:19 am Link to this comment

                                   God is as much an evolutionary result as our skin colors. God
                                   is an evolutionary
                                   result of our advanced intelligence giving us an ability to
                                   ask questions, to
                                   ponder things we didn’t understand, like lightening and
                                   drought, and thunder and
                                   stars. And to create answers. So we believed that some thing
                                   was making all that
                                   happen. A powerful thing.  Put yourself in a cave 10,000 years
                                   ago and you will
                                   create a god, because you have a need to know why your are
                                   here and where you
                                   are going. If we have a god gene…we built it from
                                   scratch…humans built it. Fear
                                   built it. Fear of the unknown.  There is no reason to believe
                                   that our intelligence is
                                   anything more than a mutation that will not survive, and it
                                   will be done and over
                                   rather quickly, if David Attenborough is right and homo
                                   sapiens have been around
                                   for 100,000 to 300,000 years.  We are over populating the
                                   planet. We have a water
                                   crisis all over the planet. We will run out of land to feed
                                   ourselves. All brought to
                                   you by a loving god?  Pretty ironic in my book.

                                   Report this
                                   THE SNED's avatar

                                   By THE SNED, April 19, 2012 at 4:01 am Link to this comment

                                   Grin..it all evolved from the big bang or big bounce…...and
                                   every ounce of iron in
                                   your body came from super novas…not from some being. But I
                                   will always leave
                                   the door open to the possibility that we are creatures created
                                   by aliens. And using
                                   common sense perhaps you’d like to explain how your god came
                                   into being with
                                   all power etc etc etc.

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, April 18, 2012 at 6:07 pm Link to this comment

                                   If all the questions you ask about things are simple yes or no
                                   when it is far more complex then that then yes I can. An I did
                                   answer you. Is you competence at answers not Yes or No beyond
                                   you an that is why you go to the simplistic? It seems that way
                                   to me.

                                   Our knowledge is still limited but it looks like something
                                   happened about 14.5 billion years ago that created our
                                   universe. But the idea of some supercilious god concept used
                                   as a reason answers nothing. Clear? Or should put it into a 3
                                   graders level?

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By grin1020, April 18, 2012 at 3:44 pm Link to this comment

                                   NG for such a simple question I would have expected an answer.
                                   Exactly what do you mean when you say, “The universe is more
                                   than Yes or No”. Actually not, NG…So what is your answer? Y or
                                   N? If you can’t answer with a Y or N, then you shouldn’t be
                                   commenting on other peoples’ mental processes.

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, April 17, 2012 at 8:09 pm Link to this comment

                                   Thank you LeeFella I enjoyed your “ramble.” One thing about
                                   evolution is that is it also produces outliers. An from such
                                   outliers gives a species a chance to survive should the
                                   present traits become dangerous to their survival an
                                   environments are always changing. When it isn’t the species
                                   stagnate an are more likely to go extinct when some abrupt
                                   alteration occurs. We are outliers an so of course are in the
                                   minority. One major aspect of needing to believe is that it
                                   helps to cluster humans into groups. Which is a survival
                                   trait. We may always be in the minority an from what I see as
                                   a trend is a more fanatical hard line approach to various
                                   religions including Christianity right here. Hinduism, and
                                   Islam also. So we may need to be quiet about our point of view
                                   in the future should the US succumb to the hard core of
                                   Christian Nationalists in our midst.

                                   Take care an hopes we can communicate here still. I can
                                   probably use Yahoo.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By Mike W, April 17, 2012 at 7:28 pm Link to this comment

                                   Night,

                                   How are you doing today? I seem to only be able to write one
                                   post per night, if that. I would like to comment on a few of
                                   your thoughts.

                                   I believe that it was Sned and I who discussed in the past a
                                   “god gene”. Maybe this is what you were referring?

                                   “Either way that interpretation was wrong. The need to
                                   believe, the urge to believe is an evolutionary trait just as
                                   much as eye color an natural ability.
                                   Right now the need to believe in such things as gods is good
                                   for human survival an until that changes it will remain so.
                                   However should the environment change in such a way that would
                                   make that trait dangerous to survival we would need to change
                                   or die out. Simple as that an yet not so simple.”(Night)


                                   I agree. For one reason or another, Man seems to have the need
                                   to worship / believe in something “larger” than him. Was it
                                   simply past down from the original Sun/earthquake God
                                   worshippers? Was it simply an evolutionary process/Natural
                                   Selection that created the gene because “worshippers”
                                   survived? Did they survive by respecting Nature, laws, each
                                   other? Did they survive because a “sacrifice” gave them “Hope”
                                   which gave them an incentive and a motivational drive to hunt
                                   harder, plant the crops, survive that winter? I think probably
                                   yes. Could an “Intelligence” create the entire process for man
                                   by planting that 1st god gene seed? I doubt it but it makes
                                   one wonder. Did ever a saber-toothed tiger rip half its kill,
                                   drag it to the morning Sun and leave it sit there so The Sun
                                   would arrive again the next morning? Maybe so but then I
                                   suppose that tiger would have to get a little more food for
                                   itself. Maybe that is why that tiger went extinct or maybe he
                                   went extinct because he did no worshipping. Or, maybe it was
                                   the ice or a Meteorite hit.
                                   Anyway, the question is why the gene, why human, why nothing
                                   else in nature with “unnatural” behavior like that?


                                   Tom wrote:
                                   “Less than thirty per cent of this country,and most Western
                                   Europeans (including Scandinavia) attend, regularly, places of
                                   worship. This does not mean that the majority are active
                                   atheists, possibly most don’t care, or would sooner watch
                                   “Footie” and drink beer. Arguably alternative Oz religious
                                   activities”

                                   Yes, I believe “Footie” – Soccer, football, baseball,
                                   basketball – watching, following is an alternative to that
                                   religious fix/god gene. There seems to be an obsession, a
                                   worshipping, etc…To thousands of folks around the globe their
                                   “sporting team” comes before their marriage (house/money/food)
                                   religion, wife, kids and others. Maybe instead it is the
                                   male’s primal release that “the kill” satisfied in the hunt?

                                   Night, I am sorry for my ramble of thoughts but my target is:
                                   Not having that “god gene” keeps one in the minority. Kept in
                                   the minority via religious groups/acceptance in society/not
                                   interested in worshipping a “sporting team”, one will have
                                   less chances to procreate. Over time and through Natural
                                   Selection, “atheists” will die off and theists will live on.

                                   So, this is why I previously stated “good luck my brother’.

                                   Hope to hear from you again, night………..

                                   Report this
                                   Leefeller's avatar

                                   By Leefeller, April 17, 2012 at 6:35 pm Link to this comment

                                   Night Gaunt, I signed up with Yahoo as Leefeller, I feel or
                                   Hope Yahoo is not really intrusive, seems to work okay for
                                   email?  I did not receive a notice from TD about TD Day
                                   either, one thing I know for sure with absolutist certainty,
                                   it is getting closer every day.

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, April 17, 2012 at 5:20 pm Link to this comment

                                   Well I am surprised because my interpretation of some of the
                                   questions an answers that Mike W gave didn’t ring true for an
                                   Atheist as I understand it, but maybe an Agnostic (fence
                                   sitters holding their lucky rabbits foot just-in-case.)

                                   As usual, now, Gring2010 just has to ask a Y or N question but
                                   don’t dare dip his toe into the waters of contention that goes
                                   far beyond such a mechanical act. Now you just look up into
                                   the sky, an if you can see the stars in our section of Orion’s
                                   Belt, you automatically believe that some super intelligence
                                   that predates universal formation did it? You do know that the
                                   improbability of such an intelligence existing is far more
                                   than the Big Bang doing it. An what about parallel universes?
                                   Are there parallel JHVH’s too? Or does one very busy entity
                                   preside over quintillions plus such universes? Or do you
                                   simply dismiss it? I’d expect the latter from you. No real
                                   depth of thought. Sad really that remarkable brain given so
                                   little real use. You are good at posting yes or no questions
                                   but at a loss for answering questions in the form of an essay.
                                   The universe is more than Yes or No, than your thought
                                   processes, an the religion you hold do. So there will always
                                   be antagonisms. Reality versus your Aristotilian thinking
                                   processes. The natural world is more nuanced than that
                                   Grin2010 far more nuanced an larger than your god concept.
                                   That is your problem.


                                   Well LeFella if they really are going to do this abomination
                                   then I am out of here by their stupid lazy action. I will not
                                   sign up with FaceBook. Never. An I wonder why I got no such up
                                   date from them. Unless I simply missed it. Either way it
                                   stinks.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_profi]

                                   By Tom Edgar, April 17, 2012 at 3:07 pm Link to this comment
                                   (Unregistered commenter)

                                   Grin look out of your window without your blinkers on and tell
                                   me that everything you see originated from a magicians act
                                   from a being who, evidently, spontaneously came into existence
                                   with superman powers.

                                   We don’t BELIEVE in the Big Bang, but do have an understanding
                                   that all the available verifiable evidence, so far, points to
                                   the probability of the theory being correct.  It is quite
                                   possible that this may prove to be incorrect,  should this
                                   happen then Science will adapt to the new evidence, something
                                   theology will never do as they maintain their BELIEFS are
                                   absolute and unchangeable.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By grin1020, April 17, 2012 at 2:51 pm Link to this comment

                                   I wish to challenge each of you…please look outdoors right
                                   now. What do you see? Now tell me that you BELIEVE that
                                   everything you see originated in the big bang. Don’t think too
                                   hard; just use common sense. Do you believe it?

                                   Report this
                                   THE SNED's avatar

                                   By THE SNED, April 17, 2012 at 3:45 am Link to this comment

                                   Mike….Thanks for clarifying everything. So you’re one of us. I
                                   didn’t know that.
                                   I do not have great memory archives. My impression of your
                                   past posts was that
                                   you were somewhat confused but not a bad guy. You sounded like
                                   someone
                                   who was waffling. Assuming you were not an atheist I asked a
                                   reasonable
                                   question.
                                   Beyond that I do disagree with your comment that people
                                   agonize anyway. I
                                   have just spent a semester in a college religion class and the
                                   kids who are
                                   believers have no desire to read anything that contradicts
                                   what they believe.
                                   More importantly the prof was educated in one of the most
                                   right winged
                                   conservative evangelical colleges you can find on the planet,
                                   and at an
                                   advanced age he still believes what he learned then. Every
                                   challenge I made to
                                   his teaching was met with disdain and answered in nonsense.
                                   For example. I
                                   questioned the Xmas census…and asked why it wasn’t recorded in
                                   Roman
                                   Records. His response. “Bethlehem was in a dink section of the
                                   Roman empire
                                   and no one kept any record of what went on.” Not bad aye? Yet
                                   the text book
                                   he uses, pushes the birth of Christ to 4 BC to accomodate a
                                   census taken
                                   then…but then the census as reported in the NT makes no sense
                                   because the
                                   Roman census did not require people to travel to their place
                                   of birth to be
                                   counted. It’s all nutty.
                                   Now this anecdotal, but it’s also my experience over the
                                   decades that people of
                                   strong faith..who are as obsessed with it as much as I am
                                   obsessed with non
                                   belief, and dislike for Roman Catholicism,  and Evangelical
                                   Protestantism, will
                                   ignore any and every objection to his or her religion. Even
                                   the prof, stated this
                                   in class.” Believers aren’t interested in theology. They are
                                   not interested in
                                   being educated. They are not in church to be taught. They just
                                   want to know
                                   that someone is up there and loves them. Period.” There’s a
                                   book out now
                                   entitled” the Rise and Fall of the BIble.” The author, husband
                                   of a minister, 
                                   clearly states that Christians have little knowledge of what’s
                                   in the bible. How
                                   come? Because they don’t read it. And even those who do read
                                   it have selective
                                   belief… It’s okay to hate gays, but stoning people to death
                                   who work on the
                                   sabbath apparently is not good anymore. They don’t agonize. It
                                   reminds me of
                                   the joke about the ethnic mine sweeper who is a guy who covers
                                   his eyes with
                                   his hands then pokes his feet gently on the surface in front
                                   of him. If it blows
                                   up he will not have seen it happen.  In terms of religion what
                                   the religious
                                   don’t want to believe won’t hurt them.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By Mike W, April 16, 2012 at 7:39 pm Link to this comment

                                   Ok, Sned. Let’s do this again. A few years ago we tried but we
                                   could do it again for old times sake.

                                   On April 10th, I wrote this passage in regards to Tom.

                                   “If a son and father both believe and live as Atheists, there
                                   must be “comfort” in the fact that they both share this belief
                                   together. There must be “comfort” that they do not have to
                                   agonize in following the almost impossible moral compass and
                                   direction of a religious organization. At the hour of death,
                                   there must be “comfort” in the fact that they needn’t worry
                                   about any judgement day, heaven or hell”

                                   So, your 1st question to me is wrong already because I never
                                   said that I believe or follow a religious organization.
                                   1. What moral compass of your religion causes you to agonize?
                                   You stated that my mom is Catholic and I stated that I was
                                   schooled in it for 12yrs. In the past, I had mentioned that
                                   like you I educated myself on the subject and through the
                                   facts and with common sense, I became an atheist in regards to
                                   the different religions. However in the past, I would post
                                   contradictions in atheists’ or possibilities in a God, or
                                   specific countering points addressing Sam’s Harris’s
                                   Manifesto, human behavior, evolution, motivational Christian
                                   music, death etc. etc. ln turn, Sned, would eventually address
                                   me as someone who is religious/Catholic/Christian etc..I would
                                   have to remind you otherwise so you would then grill me on “my
                                   mother’s” belief. Sned, you get like a pit bull unable to
                                   release your jaws from a raw bone. You are obsessed and I
                                   worry bout you sometimes but then I remember that to worry
                                   bout a human for no other reason but because he is human was
                                   something that was taught to me back in Catholic School.
                                   School taught me that man was created in God’s image. It is
                                   Man that is the chosen species and that all else living was
                                   given to us for our personal usage. Love your fellow Man and
                                   if you do the gates of heaven will be open for you.

                                   So that passage above mentions that an atheistic father and
                                   son need not agonize in the almost impossible moral compass
                                   (Contradictions in biblical law and changing rules) of a
                                   religious organization. Sned, I am not going to list the
                                   contradictions in biblical law, biblical stories, the origins
                                   of Christianity and all else to your desire so you might as
                                   well put that woody back in your pants now.

                                   My dog, Bella, breathes, bleeds, feels pain, has emotion,
                                   empathy and remorse. She has both instinctive and learned
                                   behavior, active dreams at night and no different than my
                                   daughter at that age when it came to snuggling or sneaking.
                                   See so, these days now, I need not agonize in doing the right
                                   “Christian” thing anymore. I do not believe in a Christian
                                   Jesus Holy Spirit God who warrants and pleads me to “worry”
                                   bout Sned. Sned, you are that raccoon that unfortunately got
                                   crushed by that truck tire. You are that hawk twisted in that
                                   kite line. You are that fish on the stringer, deer in the
                                   pickup bed, cat in the kill shelter and that horse breaking
                                   down in the stretch. So Sned, I don’t agonize or worry if your
                                   last days here are painful or bad. I need not worry bout many
                                   things anymore. I have my wife, mom, daughter, bella and more.
                                   But, if you could prove to me in an atheistic way that I
                                   should give a hoot more for you than the owl in my back yard
                                   then….than…maybe I’ll start agonizing over a moral conduct
                                   again.

                                   Report this
                                   Leefeller's avatar

                                   By Leefeller, April 16, 2012 at 6:14 pm Link to this comment

                                   Night-Gaunt; Link from ITW post;

                                   I really like the feeling of community we have here at TD,
                                   always in disagreement as well as agreement, so I will attempt
                                   to stick it out unless I find it overly cumbersome, really
                                   annoying and if many of the posters I have grown to know over
                                   the years leave, It remains to be seen! Leefeller

                                   Link: http://www.truthdig.com/report/item/
                                   youre_on_your_own_kids_20120412/

                                   By Inherit The Wind, April 15 at 5:56 am Link to this comment

                                   Dear Fellow TD Posters: (Repost #1)

                                   I recently received an eMail from TD containing the follow two
                                   disturbing bits of information:

                                   “With the new system, instead of logging in to your Truthdig
                                   account, you’ll see the option to log in and post comments
                                   using Facebook, Yahoo!, AOL or Hotmail. If you already have an
                                   account with one of these services, you won’t need to create a
                                   new login; and if you don’t have one, you can sign up for
                                   free.”

                                   “You will not be able to use your current Truthdig account to
                                   post comments in the new system. We hoped to avoid this
                                   inconvenience, but could not find an alternative compatible
                                   with our site architecture. (We actually tried and failed to
                                   build a custom comments engine for this reason alone.) Once we
                                   get the new feature in place, you’ll need to use one of the
                                   aforementioned services to log in and comment. Remember you
                                   can create a pseudonym account if anonymity is important to
                                   you. We plan to preserve all comment archives, so you don’t
                                   need to worry about losing anything you previously wrote.”

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, April 16, 2012 at 2:27 pm Link to this comment

                                   Lee Fella, I hope you are wrong about those changes. How did
                                   you find out about them? An I hope it won’t interfere with our
                                   conversations here. I’d be pissed.

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, April 16, 2012 at 2:25 pm Link to this comment

                                   Just one quick question, Night, before saying good night.
                                   If “The need to believe, the urge to believe is an
                                   evolutionary trait”, is true and I believe it is to be true.
                                   If it is true, who is to say that it will not be the “flexible
                                   ones” who will expire during this continuous evolutionary
                                   process. An evolutionary trait as strong as eye color will be
                                   hard to change its course. If you could stop the birds from
                                   naturally migrated south for winter, you may have a chance my
                                   brother. Mike W

                                   You certainly seem to have a hard time fully understanding me,
                                   I blame my thought processes for that. For birds or any
                                   migrating animal to change what it does it wouldn’t be natural
                                   if I or other humans interfered with that. Unless you mean the
                                   present ongoing climate change.  Now that is changing the
                                   migratory timing right now. But I don’t think that is what you
                                   were angling for when you used it as a metaphor for my
                                   conversion. Can you change in that area? If the answer is no
                                   then you know mine.

                                   Report this
                                   Leefeller's avatar

                                   By Leefeller, April 16, 2012 at 10:27 am Link to this comment

                                   Great knowing you guys, Mark Twain was smart enough to keep it
                                   to himself, I like the comment about the rapist coming for
                                   dinner. Tom, I seem to recall your poem, it was right on and
                                   very well done, it was actually jogged me memory back to Tet
                                   in Vietnam when I read it.

                                   Truthdig is changing its format, which sounds like a major
                                   change,from all sounds things will be quite different for
                                   commenting, this secession may end up being just like god and
                                   not exist?

                                   By the way just getting to this article comments section seems
                                   to already require some hoops.

                                   Take care all!

                                   Report this
                                   THE SNED's avatar

                                   By THE SNED, April 16, 2012 at 4:51 am Link to this comment

                                   An observation or two:

                                   In order for death to have silence one has to be conscious, to
                                   recognize the lack
                                   of sound. In essence then, a silent death would be one awful
                                   hell. I’m for just
                                   being dead. I also believe that the concept of a perfect
                                   heaven is a perfect
                                   hell…and that death is the same as a perfect heaven. How so?

                                   In a perfect heaven there is no disease, hence no need for
                                   doctors or nurses. No
                                   arguments, so no need for lawyers and police, no need to shop
                                   since you
                                   perfect abode comes with boxes and cans of food and freezers
                                   that are self
                                   filling or self fulfilling. One always shoots par at the golf
                                   course, and the ball
                                   always follows the same trajectory every game..no matter how
                                   you swing. You
                                   get the idea. Boring as hell.  A totally dead death then is
                                   equal to a totally
                                   perfect heaven.

                                   In order for us to appreciate anything on this planet we have
                                   to have contrasts.
                                   Nice day versus rainy day versus tornado.  Nice woman or man
                                   versus awful
                                   woman or man, versus pathetic woman or man. Good sex versus
                                   mediocre sex,
                                   versus no sex. Without the contrasts we can’t gossip,
                                   complain, weep, laugh,  or
                                   even enjoy. (You can’t enjoy all the time) My eldest son lived
                                   in LA and hated
                                   the fact that each day was basically the same. No winter, no
                                   spring, no autumn
                                   colors. In one of his books Mark Twain wrote “Can you imagine
                                   what heaven
                                   would be like if we couldn’t fornicate? (He used the more
                                   common expression)
                                   He had a lot to say about humans and their concept of heaven.
                                   “They hate harp
                                   music but they all look forward to playing harp in heaven.”

                                   (For the believers there is now a monster book out on what
                                   heaven
                                   is..http://www.amazon.com/Heaven-Randy-Alcorn/dp/0842379428
                                   Life hereafer for under $15.00

                                   Samuel Clements was smart…he kept his more controversial
                                   thoughts to be
                                   published after he died so he wouldn’t have to deal with the
                                   whacky believers
                                   who would be more likely to threaten his life and wife….than
                                   help an old lady
                                   across the street. And there is an issue that will never go
                                   away in American
                                   society. After all Christians would rather have dinner with a
                                   rapist than an
                                   atheist. You figure that one out. Samuel Clements didn’t
                                   bother. He just knew it.

                                   Report this
                                   THE SNED's avatar

                                   By THE SNED, April 16, 2012 at 3:40 am Link to this comment

                                   Mike- “Sned, I can not let you monopolize my thoughts and
                                   words here.”

                                   Okay I won’t. (Not that I know how… but I won’t anyway.) I’m
                                   sorry you can’t
                                   answer my posts with a worthy response so I’ll simplify so you
                                   can make it
                                   worthy. Here are three questions.

                                   1. What moral compass of your religion causes you to
                                   agonize.“There must be
                                   “comfort” that they do not have to agonize in following the
                                   almost impossible
                                   moral compass and direction of a religious organization.”

                                   2. Prove to us in any way you can that is factual (not
                                   opinion) that atheists are
                                   less moral than believers.

                                   3. Where do you get your news?

                                   These are all serious questions. Non of them anti Catholic,
                                   anti American, or
                                   anti anybody including you.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_profi]

                                   By Tom Edgar, April 16, 2012 at 12:19 am Link to this comment
                                   (Unregistered commenter)

                                   G’day Mike.  Yep read that lot and what is more comprehended.
                                   Even agreed except in parts.  Firstly slight misunderstanding
                                   on your part.  I only quoted the final part of my wife’s poem
                                   it was really a dying farmer’s wife telling her family not to
                                   weep, wail, and mourn as she was going to a better place.  Now
                                   my wife was a very strong Quaker, loved by any who met her as
                                   she was too nice just to like. If she thought of a hereafter,
                                   I think an unlikely attitude, she was certainly a freethinking
                                   Quaker, as most are.  Had no belief in Virgin Mothers, nor of
                                   J C as a godly figure and certainly not in the “Miracles”
                                   attributed to him. I can bring myself to actually agree with
                                   your basic philosophy as it seems to approach my darling
                                   wife’s. She did have a concept of a non Biblical power behind
                                   this throne but I couldn’t say for certain what it was, I
                                   daresay neither could she, just an ingrained belief.This
                                   damned system is misbehaving,  my last two letters have not
                                   been published, the background format is haywire and I can’t
                                   change spaces so I’ll bugger off, in the Australian
                                   vernacular.77certain

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By Mike W, April 15, 2012 at 10:46 pm Link to this comment

                                   Sned, I can not let you monopolize my thoughts and words here.
                                   I am attempting to find the time to read and contemplate a
                                   worthy response for the others and here I am stuck on again.
                                   Your double posting of time spent warrants a response from me
                                   but not a worthy one. You do not seem to try to understand
                                   regardless of how hard
                                   Here I try – wrote a bunch then deleted – time not spent well.
                                   Sorry, Sned. I do not know how to respond to you.

                                   Tom, I understand your position that you and your son do not
                                   have/had any belief in no God, heaven, hell and simply dismiss
                                   (d) it as myth. I also understand your point of not having
                                   faith in atheism because there is nothing to believe in not
                                   believing. I say that I understand but that is not to say that
                                   I believe it. Later in your posts, you admit (not to me but to
                                   a post to Night) . In that post, you mentioned that death was
                                   the beginning of “Nothingness”. You made reference to how your
                                   wife and poem mentioned that she was off to no dishes and no
                                   clothes to do, off to nothing for ever and ever. Tom, with all
                                   due respect to you and the ones you lost, it seems as if your
                                   wife found comfort in a belief that no more pain awaits here
                                   after death. That complete Nothingness awaits all of us. So,
                                   this was my point before. Having Faith and finding comfort in
                                   death with an unproven notion created in one’s own head. I too
                                   lean toward that notion that “dead” is simply silent
                                   nothingness. However, if I do not believe in a God/heaven/hell
                                   because of no proof. I suddenly think that I must not assume
                                   that dead is the beginning of “Nothingness” for there is no
                                   proof there also. To embrace death as the beginning of nothing
                                   or as a peaceful sleep is to have faith in an unproven, to
                                   hope for the best and to find comfort in an unknown.
                                   I have to add that you mentioned that both your son and close
                                   friend had to endure a painful journey to, in all probability,
                                   the same place. And, this I agree with you. But, can you agree
                                   with me – in anything? I am out of time, and wish I had more
                                   to address Night too.

                                   Just one quick question, Night, before saying good night.
                                   If “The need to believe, the urge to believe is an
                                   evolutionary trait”, is true and I believe it is to be true.
                                   If it is true, who is to say that it will not be the “flexible
                                   ones” who will expire during this continuous evolutionary
                                   process. An evolutionary trait as strong as eye color will be
                                   hard to change its course. If you could stop the birds from
                                   naturally migrated south for winter, you may have a chance my
                                   brother.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_profi]

                                   By Tom Edgar, April 15, 2012 at 9:35 pm Link to this comment
                                   (Unregistered commenter)

                                   Hi Lee. Glad you are fit enough to return.

                                   Oh as some of you know I had similar experiences in WW2. 
                                   Without going into the whole story,  when the torpedoes came
                                   straight for me, on look out, my final words before they
                                   arrived were “Oh Oh Mom.” Well on that occasion the torpedoes
                                   turned into Porpoises. Prompting my poem titled My Mom is my
                                   God, praising her ability to upstage Jesus with his magicians
                                   trick of turning water into wine by turning tin fish into real
                                   fish. (I was only 17yrs)

                                   Last night our National TV ran a program on the work of
                                   “Chaplains” within the hospital.  The Chaplain in this
                                   instance was Non Denominational and female, even I liked her.
                                   The patient was in a coma for two weeks and not expected to
                                   live, his parents came over from Britain receiving wonderful
                                   and compassionate assistance from the Chaplain, not once did
                                   she invoke God neither did she proselytise nor pray.
                                   In any case it would have been counterproductive as the father
                                   initially stated “We are not God botherers.”  a common enough
                                   term in the U K.  The outcome was good as the young man
                                   eventually recovered enough to return to Britain for
                                   convalescence. 
                                   Another segment portrayed a (Presbyterian) man with cancer
                                   with an Anglican Priest.
                                   This ended with prayers by both with the older patient
                                   repeating them as he hadn’t attended a Church since childhood
                                   and hadn’t the foggiest idea of what praying was. He just knew
                                   he was, somehow, a Christian and wanted to make sure he was on
                                   the road to ?????. Sure renewed the indoctrination from the
                                   cradle. Oh! he died.

                                   Reminds me of the drowning Mariner crying to Jesus for help. 
                                   Oops, sorry sport this is the Arabian Gulf.  Wrong
                                   intermediary, and I don’t recollect Mahomet walking on water.
                                   I make no apology for being facetious.

                                   As the late Dave Allen would say.  And may your Gods go with
                                   you.. Tom E

                                   Report this
                                   Leefeller's avatar

                                   By Leefeller, April 15, 2012 at 6:25 pm Link to this comment

                                   “Where the hell is god?” Well this is just how I felt when I
                                   was in Vietnam back in 1968, we where anticipating the tet
                                   offensive (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tet_Offensive) and we
                                   knew the Vietcong where going to hit us hard. I decided to go
                                   to the chapel and pray and rally some meager hope in what
                                   could be staving off my possible demise. When I reached the
                                   chapel there was standing room only, packed out the door of
                                   the screened chapel. Services could not be heard from my
                                   Mosquito infested vantage point, I remember the flies where
                                   taking turns in annoying the evening with the Mosquitoes that
                                   evening.  Standing in the heat feeling not so chipper,.... all
                                   of a sudden it hit me like a stick across the head!  .....  I
                                   was a blooming hypocrite just going to services because of my
                                   potential demise! Not enjoying my new revelation of hypocrisy
                                   I decided to go to the enlisted men’s club instead.

                                   As it is;

                                   “Where the hell is god?”

                                   Guys TD is making some major changes in how they do postings,
                                   so this may be farewell depending on how it works out.

                                   Thanks for helping me see the real light.

                                   Lee

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_profi]

                                   By Tom Edgar, April 15, 2012 at 2:21 pm Link to this comment
                                   (Unregistered commenter)

                                   Am I the only one who leaves no doubt to their domicile,
                                   identity, and general lifestyle? In doing so there is no need
                                   for this conjecture or puzzlement at the direction of
                                   thought.  Furthermore there is no need for this obsession with
                                   person attacks that so often leads to a total divergence from
                                   the original theme.

                                   Now Sned, once again I am sorry to point out that your
                                   thoughts regarding Australia are more than a little awry. “One
                                   look and you see how populated it can be”  Oh no, that would
                                   be like seeing the desert regions of America only on a vaster
                                   scale and imagining a population like New Jersey. Water alone
                                   is the problem, even as it is becoming in the generously
                                   watered areas of the U S A. In China one doesn’t think of the
                                   Gobi being populated as densely as much as the other
                                   provinces.  Even our cattle need square miles to survive in
                                   some areas, not as in the U S A beast to five or ten acres, or
                                   even ten square feet if in a feed lot.  Vast irrigation
                                   projects such as the Snowy Mountains Scheme has only
                                   devastated, by salinity and water deprivation, massive areas
                                   downstream, whilst in America it made even better and bigger
                                   golf courses and greener suburban lawns.

                                   However I diverge from the central point and that is the
                                   unlikelihood of there being a God in any of the manifestations
                                   of the past, and present.  Harris made it abundantly clear
                                   that there were too may points, supported by evidence,that
                                   leads to the conclusion that a superior being is not just
                                   unlikely, but impossible, whereas religionists, not
                                   necessarily only Christians, have never produced supportive,
                                   verifiable evidence to support their unfounded beliefs except
                                   in fertile imaginary hallucinations.

                                   So what about a substantial input on the central theme instead
                                   of scoring off each others person attributes and personality
                                   failings?  I’m sure I must have a failing or two, as I become
                                   older I seem to have fewer and regret those I had in my past.
                                   Intolerance is one that I try to sublimate but it is difficult
                                   when confronted by the failings of those who follow a faith
                                   then indulge in pedophilia, and many other obnoxious acts such
                                   as abuse of women, or even occasionally of men, avariciousness
                                   that accumulates vast wealth to braggingly, or is it belated
                                   conscience? when indulging in philanthropy accompanied by
                                   publicity of their beneficent largesse.The hypocrisy,even J C
                                   said it to be the worse failing. Or as my father would say.
                                   Police Priests and Politicians. “Don’t do as I do, do as I
                                   say.”

                                   Report this
                                   THE SNED's avatar

                                   By THE SNED, April 15, 2012 at 12:23 pm Link to this comment

                                   Well Mike, you remembered a lot. About half. And gort half
                                   wrong. But my
                                   question was not what you remembered about me but what you
                                   knew in
                                   general…which is why I asked where you got you information
                                   from, because it
                                   amazed me what you didn’t know about Australia. Not that I’m
                                   an expert, But
                                   geez, one look at that continent and you get an idea of just
                                   how populated it
                                   can be. But let me address “There must be “comfort” that they
                                   do not have to
                                   agonize in following the almost impossible moral compass and
                                   direction of a
                                   religious organization.”  This statement is a laugh. It is THE
                                   juvenille belief that
                                   atheists have no conscience and no moral code. That we can go
                                   out and do
                                   whatever the hell we please not because it’s right or wrong
                                   but because some
                                   being is out their judging our every move. To be blunt I find
                                   the idea of a god
                                   watching over us every moment of every day to be beyond silly.
                                   As a metter of
                                   fact I would recommend a short book to you written by an
                                   Australian Jesuit
                                   titled “Where the hell is god?” In which he makes a very
                                   strong logical argument
                                   that God doesn’t give a hoot what you pray for. SHe’s not
                                   listening. SHe leaves
                                   the planet and it’s occupants to themselves. (I wrote to the
                                   author S.J. Leonard
                                   and hoped he made Pope.) I’m sure I mentioned this here months
                                   ago.) I also
                                   suggested watching a good video on atheists you might not
                                   know…and might.
                                   http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fdVucvo-kDU&feature=g-

                                   Report this
                                   THE SNED's avatar

                                   By THE SNED, April 15, 2012 at 12:22 pm Link to this comment

                                   But mere fact that you have to agonize over doing something
                                   right or wrong
                                   tells me there’s something wrong in that! My dear man is your
                                   moral code so
                                   weak that you agonize over giving a bum a buck, or taking in a
                                   kid of another
                                   race, or moving next to someone of another race, offering to
                                   help a blind
                                   person across a street, or helping a man put on his socks in a
                                   YMCA locker
                                   room because he has a back injury. Does it bother you that you
                                   can’t rob a
                                   bank. Does athesist rob people all the time. What are you
                                   listening to. And old
                                   biook that says you should kill people working on the sabbath?
                                     Do you do that? 
                                   You agonize over such matters?  If you have kids do you make
                                   then thank you
                                   for having sex with your wife so they could be born? Do you
                                   judge them day in
                                   and day out wanting to know everything they do? Do you demand
                                   their loyalty?
                                   What kind of parent would that be? What kind of a god is that?
                                   That’s a
                                   dictator! (Watch newsfilm on North Korea) By the way…The
                                   Egyptian Book of the
                                   Dead, now on-line has a prayer in it of a man who claim he did
                                   not abuse
                                   children, that he shared his riches withe the poor. Two
                                   thought that don’t occur
                                   in the NT and far younger than the ten commandments. And I
                                   must admit I did
                                   find comfort is my quest top find God, when I realized that
                                   there was no such
                                   thing as time (discussed here many times..and there are a
                                   number of shows on
                                   the science channel that agree with that premise)....To me,
                                   that meant eternity
                                   is both backwards and forwards. The universe, in whatever
                                   shape of form, is
                                   ageless and endless. Hence no need for a god, which never made
                                   sense to
                                   me…but was now confirmed. We evolve. Intelligence evolves.  No
                                   thing is born
                                   with the power and knowledge of everything. (Which the
                                   argument for God
                                   ignores)....“Oh he existed forever! Good you believe that…I
                                   can’t. And if there is
                                   a god I will argue with her that I used the intelligence she
                                   gave me to reason
                                   that she didn’t exist.
                                   And if that’s cause for going to hell…send me there! You offer
                                   not an ounce of
                                   proof that Atheists are less moral than believers. In fact
                                   people are better cared
                                   for in countries that are secular. Look it up. And I have no
                                   desire to defend
                                   America today. Google “Why American believe anything. Print it
                                   out and read it.
                                   Oh yes….as a believer you just might argue that one of the
                                   proof points for god
                                   is that there are so many Christians.  Suggest you read a few
                                   books on the
                                   conversion of the Roman Empire by Constantine and the emperors
                                   who
                                   followed him.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By Mike W, April 15, 2012 at 9:37 am Link to this comment

                                   Sned , now, now. You know Mike W. Your protestant vs catholic
                                   childhood era, tainted you badly. It’s no wonder that your
                                   greeting to me is a mention of my mother, me being an odd one,
                                   and an anti-Catholic parenthesis on anti-gay and abortion.
                                   But, you say that I am a nice guy – which you would have
                                   mentioned in your next post to me – after saying that am I
                                   simply sensitive and had misunderstood you. So,,,,how have you
                                   been Sned? Doing the same?

                                   Let’s start out with (“Let’s start at what you do know…” sned)
                                   what I do know. Sned lived a good American Life. I believe
                                   that he lived in the World War Era, maybe served also. His
                                   Pride in America is selectively strong. His Anti-Catholicism
                                   (Christian) views trump all other personal thoughts. This
                                   confuses him greatly in life. He worked his entire life and
                                   retired well. One of his greatest attributes was adapting and
                                   raising many kids in his household. Mass-Adoption, seemingly
                                   an American Christian Act, Sned proved a person with atheistic
                                   developed beliefs could pull off also. Sned just does not
                                   realize that in regards to his childhood, my childhood, my
                                   mother’s childhood and now “his kids” childhood, we all share
                                   one thing. We share our parents’ beliefs, views and opinions
                                   passed down to us. Sned, your Anti-Theism (esp anti Roman
                                   Catholic) overpowers your ever thought process and behavior.
                                   ‘God’ help YOUR kids! But, I think Sned is nice guy overall.

                                   I am certain that Sned could have funneled his energy toward
                                   Tom instead. My points of American Dreams, American Health
                                   Care, American Patriotism, Australian’s White Australia
                                   Policy, life and death and how all humans cope with it were
                                   all valid and finally created great stories, opinions and
                                   thought provocative material pertaining to this subject. Sned,
                                   an aged American who lived his dream and life with honor and
                                   conviction failed to stand up for himself or his country
                                   simply because his “non-belief” system is the same as Tom’s.
                                   This is ok Sned. I am familiar with your behavior. But, anyway
                                   how IS your long retirement going? Is your house still with
                                   you? Or you eating well? Your electric must still be on for
                                   your computer is running. Was adoption expensive? Education
                                   available? Married a Catholic wife if I remember properly.
                                   Converted her from her mis-upbringing belief after you married
                                   too. Correct? Wedding nevertheless, kids, good job, government
                                   grants?, house I bet, music instruments and lessons if I
                                   remember.

                                   So, Sned. Redirect your satellite view from above down upon
                                   this country, our homes, hospitals, schools, open door policy,
                                   churches, mosques, temples, etc…Remember what you, our
                                   grandparents and our government did, do and try to do as a
                                   Nation. I am not saying one’s better than another but there’s
                                   a lot more going on than “an arid desert” VS “an elevated snow
                                   plateaus feeding vast river system”.

                                   Tom and Night. Thank you for your posts, your time put forth
                                   and especially Tom’s shared moments and thoughts of the
                                   difficult time of death of his wife, son and close friend.
                                   Sned, popped into the scene to divide us at the moment when we
                                   finally were starting to engage in deeper substance. I will
                                   need to read and reread your posts and hopefully I will be
                                   able to respond and contribute with equal quality.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_profi]

                                   By Tom Edgar, April 14, 2012 at 10:19 pm Link to this comment
                                   (Unregistered commenter)

                                   Oh dear Night Gaunt.  You shouldn’t be upset at Grin’s remarks
                                   about the an(d)  It was politely put and only reflected on why
                                   you wrote this way.  I will say it puzzled me but I just
                                   accepted it as it could have had several reasons. 1 It could
                                   be a really serious grammatical error, if so it is not polite
                                   to remark on it. 2. It could also be an interpretation of a
                                   colloquial aberration normally used in a specific area much as
                                   so many people mispronounce have as of, in sentences such as
                                   in. “He could have(of)”.  Once again not really polite to draw
                                   attention.  Then it could be one of those abbreviations so
                                   common today from text messages,. or even a deliberate
                                   shortening.  However as “an” is a real word as is “and” it is
                                   usual to use them in the correct fashion.  That being said I
                                   am reminded of a Tutor in debating class saying that if the
                                   words, content and message are understandable then the way
                                   they are delivered are of secondary importance.

                                   Apart from the forgoing N G you are, as usual, spot on,
                                   although Mike wold probably interpret that as just you and me
                                   being in agreement on a subject to which he is in a
                                   diametrically opposing position.

                                   Sned you are too kind.  Do I actually know who you are? Have
                                   we met somewhere?  I would like to think you are truly
                                   perceptive but Mike, poor fellow, would then think maybe you
                                   are my alter ego, or at least a bedfellow.

                                   Now, Australia Socialist??? Maybe comparatively from an
                                   American point of view.  Compared to France Holland, and
                                   Scandinavia we are relatively on the right of centre and sadly
                                   destined to go even further to the right after the recent
                                   State elections.

                                   Now I am one of those who actually has doubts about the
                                   existence of the “Christ” there being no authenticating
                                   evidence, outside of Biblical writings.  My musings on this is
                                   on the possibility of multiple evangelicals wandering around
                                   at the same time, much like the mythical Robin Hood.  A
                                   character who seemed to pop up all over the middle counties of
                                   England performing daring deeds, robbing and then helping the
                                   destitute this became encompassed into the mythical single
                                   figure and still lingers on.  This even has a modern day
                                   counterpart in the mobsters of London’s East End “The Kray
                                   Brothers” A most evil pair, who were revered by some for their
                                   philanthropy with their ill gotten gains.

                                   My son in law, a crossword addict, said today, after answering
                                   his puzzle query which involved religious garb.  “I find it
                                   puzzling that you are versed in religion and an atheist.”  I
                                   said in reply.  “You have to have an understanding of your
                                   subject matter to be able to debate, fortunately for the
                                   atheists too many Believers have never questioned their rote
                                   learned understanding of their faith, to know the truth of its
                                   genesis let alone the manipulations of the varying faiths and
                                   sects over the past few thousand years.”  Herein lies what I
                                   referred to in Cardinal Spell’s abject performance against
                                   Richard Dawkins.  Away from his ritualistic application of
                                   indoctrinated Catholic theological postulations he was on
                                   unholy ground and was intellectually humiliated, especially
                                   when he ventured into Biology Dawkins specialty.. May Allah
                                   the Merciful forgive him.

                                   I could be quite wrong in my wondering here, and I invite non
                                   Biblical proof to the contrary regarding J C’s existence. Or
                                   for that matter the Ark, or Moses and Exodus, but especially
                                   that supreme example of all cerebral manifestations “GOD”, any
                                   of the thousands will do.

                                   Report this
                                   THE SNED's avatar

                                   By THE SNED, April 14, 2012 at 8:06 pm Link to this comment

                                   I know..and I write like a moron. Sorry…I’m terrible at self
                                   editing.

                                   Hello Tom…nice to read you comments again.

                                   Report this
                                   THE SNED's avatar

                                   By THE SNED, April 14, 2012 at 8:03 pm Link to this comment

                                   Good grief all this stuff going on and I only now hear of it?
                                   Funny system they
                                   have here. They must be having tech problems. I don’t
                                   understand Mike W’s
                                   comments at all. Not that I’m smart. But what’s the argument?
                                   Over comfort?  Is
                                   he defending America’s idiotic attempts at being pioneers all
                                   over again? Or
                                   Christianity? Did he read the lastest survey of religion in
                                   the US…the greatest
                                   and fastest growth is in the noners.  The No affiliated who
                                   don’t align
                                   themselves with any religion. And our youth are less
                                   reliogious and much more
                                   liberal than their parents. (Athesists have no ninlical reason
                                   to hate people for
                                   thier sexual orientation. and believe in a woman’s right to
                                   choose. And there’s a
                                   new book out on the heresy of America…about the Evangelical
                                   preachers saying
                                   one can get rich by worshipping Jesus while Jesus message was
                                   not to get rich
                                   but to help the poor….Isn’t this the same MIke W that was here
                                   a year or two
                                   ago?  Hello Mike. Is that you? As I recall a Christian who is
                                   upset if we get upset
                                   with him. There was something odd about him. Nice guy but had
                                   issues.Mother
                                   a Catholic? Yes? Not like Glenno who has a hobby here of
                                   saying nothing and
                                   continues his cowardly ways. Just for the record I would not
                                   recommend that
                                   anyone take on Tom Edgar. He’s is all together together.
                                   Smarter than the rest
                                   of us here.  And it doesn’t take a genius Mike, if you look at
                                   Australia from a
                                   satellite, to tealize that most of it is arid desert. And they
                                   horrific droughts that
                                   continue today.  You made comments like you never read a paper
                                   ir listened to
                                   the news.  Or maybe you listent to Christian radio and the
                                   don’t talk about
                                   other countries because they’re mostly   socialistic. And
                                   that’s why Tom had to
                                   point that out too. So where do you get your news Mike? Let’s
                                   start at what you
                                   do know…because what you’d said so far has left me, for one, 
                                   wondering. (Of
                                   course you could say Tom has been educating you..and you’d get
                                   5 stars from
                                   me)

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, April 14, 2012 at 7:04 pm Link to this comment

                                   You misunderstand me Mike W I was speaking of the variability
                                   an flexibility of the human species. An that includes a few of
                                   us who aren’t believers. If you knew anything about evolution
                                   you would know that for a species to survive some of them are
                                   born every generation with differences from the norm. A way of
                                   not keeping all the eggs in one basket. I’m sorry if I didn’t
                                   write it clearly enough for you. (Or you have a chip on your
                                   shoulder an you just thought you saw that in my writing.)
                                   Either way that interpretation was wrong. The need to believe,
                                   the urge to believe is an evolutionary trait just as much as
                                   eye color an natural ability.

                                   Right now the need to believe in such things as gods is good
                                   for human survival an until that changes it will remain so.
                                   However should the environment change in such a way that would
                                   make that trait dangerous to survival we would need to change
                                   or die out. Simple as that an yet not so simple.

                                   We gain comfort from our family members, memories, beauty of
                                   nature just like everyone else only without the burden of
                                   superstition or mysticism. That is all. Or do you constantly
                                   bat away the “false” gods (your Atheism) an purple winged
                                   elephants? No of course not. Neither do we.

                                   Grin2010 now you stoop so low to make a crack at my grammar?
                                   Pitiful, barrel scrapings an bad etiquette. Tisk. You are a
                                   petty being after all! Welcome to the human race.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_profi]

                                   By Tom Edga, April 13, 2012 at 5:16 pm Link to this comment
                                   (Unregistered commenter)

                                   I don’t know if you have some objection to an “Unregistered
                                   commenter”  In my case it is simply because every time I try
                                   to “Log In” I am at first accepted then bounced off leaving my
                                   only recourse the other method of entry. Admin seem unable to
                                   correct the anomaly.

                                   No Mike you do not address my points you simply word them your
                                   way.  Your last is indicative of this. You state that my son
                                   and I have/had a belief in no Gods, heaven, nor hell, not
                                   true, we have/had NO belief in these myths. There is a world
                                   of difference. It is similar to your repetitiveness about
                                   having a belief in atheism, once again not true. There is
                                   NOTHING to believe in NOT believing. There is, of course an
                                   understanding, once again a philosophical approach to
                                   definitions, but as so often is the case the interpretation
                                   and elucidation can have a great variance according to the
                                   nuances of language and the individuals interpretation.

                                   If I have ignored any part of your arguments I do not hesitate
                                   to state that I probably thought they weren’t worthy of
                                   attention, or, apologetically, even an oversight.

                                   As it is with so many religionists I am always prompted to ask
                                   of “Gods” and their existence.  “Show me the verifiable
                                   evidence.”

                                   Just this week on Australian television the leading R C
                                   Archbishop (Pell) debated with Richard Dawkins. When he was
                                   asked a similar question he fumbled and mumbled but eventually
                                   admitted there was no verifiable evidence.
                                   Well if a Cardinal can’t substantiate his beliefs. Can you?
                                   I dissociate myself from your comments regarding atheism being
                                   in a minority. This may well be correct in the backward
                                   countries but not in most advanced European nations and
                                   certainly not in mine.

                                   On the same television show a poll was conducted on the
                                   question.  “Would the world be better off without religion.”
                                   The answer was roughly what the country’s religious
                                   affiliation reflects in the area generally. r said yes.
                                   Less than thirty per cent of this country,and most Western
                                   Europeans (including Scandinavia) attend, regularly, places of
                                   worship. This does not mean that the majority are active
                                   atheists, possibly most don’t care, or would sooner watch
                                   “Footie” and drink beer.  Arguably alternative Oz religious
                                   activities.

                                   Worldwide about one billion people are Hindus, additionally
                                   many others are not of the Judaic, Christian, Islamic
                                   tradition, Shinto, Animist, etc., so toward this bloc the
                                   attitude of the first three are atheistic. Well at least they
                                   think that they are wrong, and within even that triumvirate
                                   they each think the others are, to varying degrees incorrect, 
                                   with each section (especially the Christians) there are also
                                   many who have strong convictions only they are the “Saved.”

                                   So when I ask “Show me the evidence.” I understand that it is
                                   difficult,  there being so many Gods, and differing beliefs,
                                   for which a multitude of conflicting evidences could be
                                   asked.  But I’ll settle for your God (and Archbishop Pell’s).

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By Mike W, April 13, 2012 at 8:15 am Link to this comment

                                   I am comfortable with how I rebutted Tom’s points:

                                   “If I lay my head on a comfortable pillow it is not a release
                                   from any affliction, I gain comfort from a warm environment
                                   not because I am being afflicted by a chilly one. To state
                                   otherwise only shows you are capable of selective searching”
                                   (Tom)

                                   I then brought the discussion back to my original point
                                   regarding the topic of An Atheist Manifesto. I was part of the
                                   original crew here, put my time in, and paved the way for
                                   Unregistered Commenter Tom Edgar. A person who suggests that
                                   my comments are not worthy here, that I am simply stirring the
                                   possum. Unregistered Commenter Tom also then throws in his age
                                   of experiential knowledge to further insult my intelligence. I
                                   would have respected you more, Tom, if you had addressed
                                   simply one of my points. In that response, you could have
                                   concluded with a declaration of discontinuation with me based
                                   on your status of superiority. But, instead you took the high
                                   easy road out and addressed nothing.

                                   Night, you have to stop, back up and take a breath. You sound
                                   like a Christian Preacher continuously reciting quotes from
                                   your atheistic bible. If I made a point to Tom or a good
                                   rebuttal or a bad rebuttal address it. Don’t be afraid of
                                   crossing your fellow Atheist. Remember, you believe that there
                                   is no God, no God who could punish you for that bad deed
                                   against your fellow believer.

                                   Night, you believe that an atheist became an atheist because
                                   of the study of evolution, study of religion and the evolving
                                   facts of life? Your comments that atheists, esp you, are part
                                   of a minority of a species who is more flexible and will be
                                   the ones who will not “die out”. That’s a bunch of crap but
                                   like I stated before, I believe some atheists start acting,
                                   talking and believing no different than a religious branch of
                                   believers. Religion has always been used as a way of
                                   controlling a population, be it for good or for bad deeds.
                                   Atheism and Theism and different sects of each have and will
                                   always be here. To say that atheistic thinking humans is the
                                   key to survival is pure wrong. Who’s to say that it was not
                                   theistical thinking that brought our species this far already?
                                   We are on top of the food chain, surviving by Nature and by
                                   our own intelligence. Some may say since Theism of some sort
                                   has been since the beginning days of Homo sapiens, it was
                                   Intelligence that got us this far.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By grin1020, April 12, 2012 at 11:12 pm Link to this comment

                                   Night-Gaunt -
                                   I’ve got to know…do you have something against the use of the
                                   word ‘and’?

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_profi]

                                   By Tom Edgar, April 12, 2012 at 6:02 pm Link to this comment
                                   (Unregistered commenter)

                                   Sorry NG if I diverge slightly.  My son nor I had/have any
                                   fear or even concern with death.  Death means the beginning of
                                   nothingness.  Or as my late wife’s little poem about the dying
                                   farmer’s wife ended, ” I’m off to where there is no dishes to
                                   clean,  nor clothes to be sewing. So don’t cry for me now, nor
                                   cry for me ever, for I’m off to do nothing for ever and ever.”

                                   Now dying is another matter altogether, one of the final
                                   requests my son made to me was. “Put me down Tom.”  His
                                   passing was very slow. and we had “Put down” so many animals
                                   before they got to that stage.
                                   Very rarely is the natural process of dying a comfortable one.
                                   A devout Anglican friend in her nineties lay dying slowly from
                                   WW2 induced problems brought back from North Africa where she
                                   had been a Lieutenant Nurse (R N Z N C)  In her nineties she,
                                   only hours from her demise, said “Oh Tom if this is the way to
                                   heaven I really can’t recommend it.”
                                   I’ve no doubt she thought she was on the way to that mythical
                                   place as much as my son thought otherwise,  both had to endure
                                   a painful journey to, in all probability, the same place.

                                   I leave you with another part of my “Quaker” wife’s homilies.
                                   “In the end we are but a sum of our loving. Maybe it is all so
                                   unbelievably simple, not as theologists would have it, complex
                                   and profound.”

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, April 12, 2012 at 5:03 pm Link to this comment

                                   So, YOU probably knew that I was trying to simply state a
                                   point that if a person comes to the conclusion of ‘Atheism” A
                                   = without “Theism”’ for himself, he has accepted the belief of
                                   no heaven, no hell, no judgement day etc… At the moment of
                                   death, this atheist very well may be afraid of death but not
                                   afraid of the “Nothingness” that he believes awaits him after
                                   death. This “faith” in this belief should certainly bring him
                                   comfort just as a person of religion finds comfort in heaven
                                   awaiting her after death.Mike W

                                   Such conclusions aren’t belief as you twist it to be. But
                                   conclusions based upon observed phenomena. But you guys just
                                   can’t wrap your heads around the idea that we function
                                   differently from you. Yes we are a minority an it makes us
                                   neither right nor wrong. If you understood the Natural world
                                   including Evolution you can see where Nature is always making
                                   sure to have a few outliers from the main part. (Call it
                                   biological statistics.) The more flexible a species is the
                                   greater chance of it maintaining existence in a changed
                                   environment. For those that don’t have that potential they
                                   cannot an die out. We still have some flexibility in this area
                                   but the majority are automatic believers in some form of
                                   mystical things including “life beyond death” an such.

                                   Yes unlike the usual ones you go after, we have our brains in
                                   good use. We reason an analyze an question you to the Nth
                                   degree. So of course you will consider time with us “wasted.”
                                   What do you think we think of it? It keeps us sharp if you are
                                   good at reasoning. If you are not it becomes disjointed
                                   meandering waffling.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_profi]

                                   By Tom Edgar, April 11, 2012 at 12:58 am Link to this comment
                                   (Unregistered commenter)

                                   Kriseorlmitey. Glenno??? Must be a “Mystic” if s(h)e can make
                                   sense out of the cornucopia of confabulate conundrums here
                                   expressed.

                                   What it has to do with anything relevant to the theme of this
                                   article is beyond my intellect or qualifications, experience
                                   and 85 years. Certainly doesn’t address the reactions or
                                   propositions of those opposing M W’s meanderings, apart from
                                   being irrelevant to the article or anything else.

                                   Now confess Mike You are just “Stirring the Possum.”
                                   and you are not about to be actually addressing any serious
                                   topic.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By Mike W, April 10, 2012 at 10:11 pm Link to this comment

                                   How are you Glenno? The years are going by, bud.

                                   So, YOU probably knew that I was trying to simply state a
                                   point that if a person comes to the conclusion of ‘Atheism” A
                                   = without “Theism”’ for himself, he has accepted the belief of
                                   no heaven, no hell, no judgement day etc… At the moment of
                                   death, this atheist very well may be afraid of death but not
                                   afraid of the “Nothingness” that he believes awaits him after
                                   death. This “faith” in this belief should certainly bring him
                                   comfort just as a person of religion finds comfort in heaven
                                   awaiting her after death.

                                   If a son and father both believe and live as Atheists, there
                                   must be “comfort” in the fact that they both share this belief
                                   together. There must be “comfort” that they do not have to
                                   agonize in following the almost impossible moral compass and
                                   direction of a religious organization. At the hour of death,
                                   there must be “comfort” in the fact that they needn’t worry
                                   about any judgement day, heaven or hell.

                                   Tom states:
                                   ‘If Tom lays his head on a comfortable pillow, it is not a
                                   release from any affliction. If Tom gains comfort from a warm
                                   environment, it is not because (he is) being afflicted by a
                                   chilly one.’ 

                                   But he is wrong for Tom’s pillow is only ruled “comfortable”
                                   because his head and neck has been in pain and strained in a
                                   balanced upright position all day. Tom’s “comfortable’ warm
                                   environment is only deemed comfortable because he needed
                                   warmth during a cold spell.
                                   I am certain, if Tom has been bedridden and kinks and sores
                                   have developed, a “comfortable” pillow would not only have
                                   been the culprit but also will be the continuation of agony.
                                   If Tom was burning up in a fiery Tennessee or Australian house
                                   fire, he certainly would not seek “comfort” in a “warm’
                                   environment but rather a “colder” one.

                                   Glenno, yes these guys are wrong with their arguments. They go
                                   on the same old attack. Saying the same old things without
                                   even trying to figure out what angle I am asking of them.  I’m
                                   here wasting time trying to debate the word comfort used as a
                                   noun then a verb then how used in a sentence etc… “Night”
                                   brings up a Myth Bin and states that one could find comfort in
                                   people not in atheism. At Tom’s hour of death, he is not only
                                   finding comfort in atheism but finding comfort in taking
                                   parting shots at the USA, Tennessans, U.S. health care,
                                   Christianity, non-atheists.

                                   Actually, Just Maybe These Guys are correct. They REALLY find
                                   no comfort in atheistic thinking during life and especially at
                                   the time of death.
                                   It is nice talking to you again Glenno. You always try to
                                   understand my thoughts and I respect you for that. Thank you.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By grin1020, April 10, 2012 at 5:08 pm Link to this comment

                                   Mike W. -
                                   Learn from my mistakes…I’ve wasted countless hours with these
                                   lost souls.
                                   Titus 3:10 ESV
                                   “As for a person who stirs up division, after warning him once
                                   and then twice, have nothing more to do with him.”

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, April 6, 2012 at 5:49 pm Link to this comment

                                   Strange way of reasoning Mike W to say the least. Did you
                                   learn that in a Christian school or all on your own? A little
                                   tongue piercing cheek here? One can find comfort in others not
                                   in something like Atheism. We don’t substitute it in our minds
                                   “Atheism” for “religion” it just doesn’t compute that way.

                                   Or are you constantly having to push all those other gods out
                                   of your head that you see as fake, false an unreal? No you
                                   just move with that one. For us there is nothing to put in a
                                   place like that in our minds. No need. So we pursue other
                                   things with out time an lives. No praying, no worshiping, no
                                   supplications etc. No such category, they all go into the Myth
                                   bin. (You’ve got one such “Myth Bin” too but you leave out one
                                   of the god’s an you have it in you “Religion bin.” in your
                                   mind.)  Remember that you next question.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_profi]

                                   By Tom Edgar, April 5, 2012 at 6:19 pm Link to this comment
                                   (Unregistered commenter)

                                   You must be using a Tennessee dictionary, I suggest you use an
                                   Oxford. or even a Webster. If I lay my head on a comfortable
                                   pillow it is not a release from any affliction, I gain comfort
                                   from a warm environment not because I am being afflicted by a
                                   chilly one. To state otherwise only shows you are capable of
                                   selective searching.

                                   As for me having “Faith” in my atheistic beliefs that is an
                                   oxymoronic statement in extremis. Faith is what you hold when
                                   you have no proof to support an understanding. Whilst it is
                                   virtually impossible to show proofs for the non existence of
                                   anything it is easy enough to disprove the negative by showing
                                   evidence for the positive.  In the case for religious beliefs
                                   I have never been shown one scintilla of supportive,
                                   replicable, and verifiable evidence that would show me the
                                   atheism isn’t valid.
                                   ipso facto, atheism is a justifiable stance.

                                   As there is, to my mind, no judgment day, no heaven, (nor
                                   hell) I’ll not let those to mythical prospects bother me let
                                   alone gain comfort from them.


                                   As you are the proselytising visitor here I ask why do you
                                   bother? You are very unlikely to change our philosophy,  I
                                   dare say we will not be changing yours,  nor are we about to
                                   visit your “Abode” with the intent to enlighten you either.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By Mike W, April 5, 2012 at 5:41 pm Link to this comment

                                   If atheism is defined as having no religious affiliation (no
                                   theism), an atheist WILL have comfort (no affliction) in their
                                   belief that there is no devil, no God and no judgement day
                                   when they die. They will certainly. Comfort actually sprang up
                                   the moment that their studies seemed to disprove theism in
                                   their minds.

                                   Tom Edgar wrote:
                                   “There is no comfort, just the satisfaction of knowing that,
                                   intellectually, we are free from the mental captivity of the
                                   dogmatic brainwashed enslavement of unproven religious
                                   beliefs.”

                                   I believe that Tom does find COMFORT and satisfaction in his
                                   atheism in life and certainly at the moment of death.

                                   Actually, COMFORT is defined as “relief from affliction”.
                                   So Tom, come on. Please stop trying to intellectually belittle
                                   me. You forced me to grab a dictionary and a few pages past
                                   the exlibris was comfort being defined as a relief from
                                   affliction. And, it is clear that Tom Edgar is within
                                   affliction based on his words of ‘satisfaction and free from
                                   dogmatic enslavement’. His very description of death.

                                   Faith is defined as -  belief which is not based on proof.
                                   Could Tom also have faith in his atheistic belief? (Faith)
                                   Belief, not based on proof /in Atheism (without theism – which
                                   is based on faith)?
                                   It does not matter to split hairs on words and definitions. My
                                   analogy of the words comfort and faith with theists and Tom
                                   Edgar at the hour of their deaths should have been clearly
                                   understood.

                                   So, Tom, would you like to try again.  Regarding the fact that
                                   as your life here on earth nears closure, do you find comfort
                                   in the fact that your faith (or belief not based on proof on
                                   theism which is based on faith) in atheism is strong in your
                                   mind? If true then there is no struggle with judgment day,
                                   hell, loved ones neither here nor there and that there is not
                                   a heaven that based on unproven writings you will certainly
                                   not being visiting? Is there also comfort in your atheistic
                                   belief that your son and you will lie in dust and both shall
                                   be together ‘intellectually’ free and both in a state of total
                                   absolution?

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By Tom Edgar, April 1, 2012 at 6:58 pm Link to this comment

                                   I should have take a little more time in responding to the
                                   tripe from Mike W. so that I could educate him a little
                                   further.

                                   Comparing Australia’s land mass with America’s is ludicrous. 
                                   In the first instance it is only comparable in size with the
                                   original 48 States not with Hawaii and Alaska with their
                                   mineral wealth.

                                   Secondly we have no elevated snow plateaus feeding vast river
                                   systems.  Our inland areas, in the main are sparsely
                                   inhabited, and will remain so, our water availability to feed
                                   another 20 million let alone 280 million, is non existent, the
                                   present population is already experiencing potable water
                                   shortages. Whilst we have a small oil and gas production
                                   working it is but a fraction of the REMAINING stock in the
                                   Americas. To equate our wealth
                                   with America’s to justify your totally unchristian attitudes
                                   towards your own citizens whilst we, as a mainly non christian
                                   nation, along with the other nations I mentioned show a degree
                                   of egalitarianism that Bible bashers preach but, generally, do
                                   not remotely practice unless solely to the adherents of their
                                   own particular religious persuasion.

                                   For a degree in hypocrisy you are well qualified to graduate. 
                                   You tell me not to make comparisons between nations and their
                                   failings, then do so when comparing the U S A’s and my adopted
                                   country.  No wonder I’m glad I decided Texas was not the place
                                   to stay in 1945, along with the U K and other European
                                   nations. So I became a “Born Again” Australian. My parents not
                                   having got it right first time around.
                                   The only alternative, and possibly better, was New Zealand,
                                   but then it does Shake, Rattle, and Roll periodically.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_profi]

                                   By Tom Edgar, March 30, 2012 at 7:19 pm Link to this comment
                                   (Unregistered commenter)

                                   Once again we have a person without any conception of the term
                                   “Atheism”. A = without “Theism” religious affiliation. There
                                   is nothing else added. Faith, Beliefs, whether philosophical,
                                   or political.

                                   Faith by its very definition is that to which one clings when
                                   they have neither facts nor evidence to justify beliefs.  In
                                   atheism there is NO comfort, nor is there companionship in
                                   death, that is reserved for those who can’t think, and embrace
                                   religions in all their variety and complexity.
                                   There is no residing for all eternity in each others embrace,
                                   once again that resides in the imagination of some religious
                                   followers. There is no comfort , just the satisfaction of
                                   knowing that, intellectually, we are free from the mental
                                   captivity of the dogmatic brainwashed enslavement of unproven
                                   religious beliefs.

                                   For your pathetic defence of America’s unjust non health care
                                   system and qualifying Australia’s because of our lesser
                                   population density, I suggest you add those of most of western
                                   European and Scandinavian nations, or even your northern
                                   neighbour’s not so, comparatively speaking, meretricious
                                   service.

                                   When making statements regarding another country I suggest you
                                   research your subject.  The “White Australia Policy” had
                                   absolutely nothing to do with “Post World War 2”, in which
                                   incidentally I was a participant, that infamous policy was
                                   well established in, and before, the 1900s.  In spite of that
                                   my own wife’s ancestry was Chinese man/Irish woman marrying in
                                   1852. This didn’t negate racial bigotry, some pockets remain
                                   to this day, as they do in all the States of the American
                                   Union, and virtually all the world’s nations.

                                   Defending your medieval social, non welfare State’s actions
                                   will never advance the health, education, and social justice
                                   systems of the U S A to match those of other advanced nations.
                                   Advocating and supporting a system that has a proven record of
                                   abject failure when compared to countries such as Finland or
                                   Denmark when your own country is so much richer only only
                                   shows that they have a more enlightened attitude to the
                                   distribution of available wealth, and a greater sense of
                                   egalitarianism. I close with this observation by an American
                                   who said. “If you want to live the American Dream, migrate to
                                   Denmark.”  I preferred Australia, the weather’s warmer.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By Mike W, March 30, 2012 at 6:10 pm Link to this comment

                                   Edgar speaks of an atheistic bond between himself and his son.
                                   This bond has brought him comfort in life and now in death of
                                   one. Edgar believes that his son now lays in eternal
                                   nothingness, state of painlessness and eternal comfort. This
                                   state is where the bond between father and son unite in belief
                                   and which brought great comfort during their living days
                                   together. As his days are shortened here, faith in atheism and
                                   joining his son in eternal rest comes easier.


                                   Australia with a population of 20 million and the United
                                   States at 300 million…and land mass of equal resources…sure
                                   enjoy your free health care.
                                   Watch and see after another 280 million folks come on board.


                                   U.S. Policy?? Ya say?
                                   After World War II, Australia needed to replenish their
                                   deceased.
                                   Australia needed to repopulate for rebuilding, money and to
                                   defend their land. Thus, entered the “White Australia Policy”.
                                   Repopulate the country side with white folks again. Yes, this
                                   policy stayed in place until 1972. 1972 1972!

                                   Sounds a little “Germany” – Tom Edgar – stop comparing
                                   countries, policies, health care, home and savings lost to
                                   illness etc…Your brother’s gone. Your son’s gone and I am sure
                                   many more also.
                                   Here too… loved ones gone. Never coming back. Finances made,
                                   savings and health diminishing, hopes down and hopes up.
                                   Health up then health failing…

                                   That’s life over seas – here and there.


                                   Tom, keep your faith the same as your son my brother until
                                   your very last breath. That way, one lad is not stuck alone
                                   from father or son.

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, March 29, 2012 at 1:41 pm Link to this comment

                                   Excellent video The Sned an am glad that Ayn Rand wasn’t part
                                   of the group. Nice music too. Did you know that writer/creator
                                   Michael J. Stazinski is also an Atheist an on his great show
                                   “Babylon 5” the welcome to the space station was a long line
                                   of religionists and an Atheist too!

                                   Report this
                                   THE SNED's avatar

                                   By THE SNED, March 29, 2012 at 3:47 am Link to this comment

                                   Interesting video—“Atheist”

                                   http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fdVucvo-kDU&feature=g-
                                   vrec&context=G23db544RVAAAAAAAAAw

                                   Report this
                                   Night-Gaunt's avatar

                                   By Night-Gaunt, March 28, 2012 at 5:37 pm Link to this comment

                                   By Dr. Zaius, March 17 at 6:33 pm Link to this comment
                                   (Unregistered commenter)

                                   The greatest murderers are the Communists who are atheist. 
                                   Mao Tse Tung
                                   murdered 75,000,000 in China, Joseph Stalin murdered
                                   50,000,000 people in the
                                   Soviet Union.  Currently the most repressive and murderous
                                   regime is Communist
                                   NorthKorea.  It is atheists who are the biggest killers.

                                   Also N. Korea isn’t Atheist, they are forced to worship their
                                   leader as a god-man king just like the old days.

                                   I was going to lay into you on that much used canard but Tom
                                   Edgar who trounced you in that department, took care of it
                                   masterly. Believe me Dr. Zaius, we have heard that before an
                                   no matter how often we correct them they use it again an again
                                   because it works for their sheep, I mean flock. But please
                                   attempt to rebut this from Tom, I dare you!

                                   Tom Edgar, my mother died in 2010 from cancer. She was very
                                   Catholic an thought she had read in the Bible something she
                                   thought meant she would live for 20 or so more years. (Believe
                                   me when I say I wish she had been right.) She went from
                                   hospital to hospice an then died within a day. I wasn’t there
                                   but one of my brothers were.  I feel for you an know of
                                   something of what you are experiencing. I hope he doesn’t
                                   suffer.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_profi]

                                   By Tom Edgar, March 28, 2012 at 4:51 pm Link to this comment
                                   (Unregistered commenter)

                                   Thank you Lee.

                                   I’ll not claim Australia’s Health Care system is perfection
                                   just that my experience of it was.  There are too many
                                   attempts to try and copy the American way. I would also add
                                   that in my recovery ward (five beds) there were patients who
                                   were covered by Health Insurance, and those of us who were
                                   not.  No difference in care and treatment. In my case the
                                   surgeon (The most senior in the hospital) would be paid by the
                                   State, the others privately.

                                   Most of the medications I am now taking are heavily subsidised
                                   by the State.  per prescription, when officially listed, the
                                   price is $5.60. I was once prescribed shots at $4,000.00 per
                                   injection three times yearly for life.  I declined but each
                                   shot would have only cost me the prescribed price of $5.60.

                                   For any attempt to gain near perfection I would advocate the
                                   total coverage of the population by a Government funded Health
                                   Insurance scheme.  Socialism? Not in my book, just social
                                   justice.
                                   Last October I journeyed through the U S A, and in Texas I was
                                   confronted by a (Republican) lady who said. “These Socialist
                                   actions are always abused .” my reply was.“So you advocate
                                   that for the 1% who abuse the system the remaining 99% should
                                   suffer?”  Now this, to me, smacks of Fascist mentality which
                                   was epitomised by the Third Reich in occupied Europe in WW2
                                   when retaliating for actions by the oppressed resisting their
                                   occupation.  But then I see little difference now between the
                                   Fascist acts within America, and internationally, by the U S A
                                   and those of Nazi Germany. Dare I add that in both cases
                                   Germany and U S A used Christian ideology as a motivating
                                   reason.

                                   Forgive me I am wandering from the theme.  I am led to believe
                                   the Health care systems of Scandinavia and other European
                                   nations, notably France, are even
                                   better than my experience.  All I can say is that, unless you
                                   are very wealthy, many third world countries would be served
                                   better than some of the disadvantaged in the U S A.

                                   As for the U K I had a brother who lived there who took five
                                   years to die from spinal cancer, in all that time he never
                                   lost his home or bank account, and received extremely good
                                   “Free” care, as did my brother in law,  who died in similar
                                   circumstances.

                                   Report this
                                   Leefeller's avatar

                                   By Leefeller, March 28, 2012 at 2:36 pm Link to this comment

                                   Tom,

                                   Please get well and my condolence for your son. The medical
                                   care you speak of is in Australia, correct. I would like to
                                   keep your well written post for future reference, when arguing
                                   with the Knuckle Dragging opposition to Universal health care?
                                   Any other information would also be helpful, all we hear in
                                   the States is about the long lines waiting for health care,
                                   heard this from Ron Paul just the other day, but he was
                                   referring to England, while generalizing at the same time.

                                   Wish you well.

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_profi]

                                   By Tom Edgar, March 27, 2012 at 9:58 pm Link to this comment
                                   (Unregistered commenter)

                                   Thought for a moment that whilst I was otherwise engaged the
                                   site had disappeared,but thankfully not so.

                                   Oh what a fool.  Stalin an atheist? He started as a Russian
                                   Orthodox and a seminarian at that. and was buried in the
                                   consecrated ground of that faith. Oh he and his followers may
                                   have been nasty people, I still have a copy of a May Day March
                                   with the leaders on the podium actually crossing themselves in
                                   the Russian manner.  Mao Tse Tung was, to the best of my
                                   memory, still a traditional Chinese follower of the ancient
                                   ways, mainly Confucian and Ancestor worshiping.  In either
                                   case they did not murder in the name of atheism but in the
                                   name of power and control. This contrasts with the past
                                   atrocities committed in the name of Catholicism Islam and
                                   Protestantism all with the purpose of killing “Unbelievers”
                                   with the sole aim of enforcing adoption of the “Correct”
                                   faith. Oh, then there is the ongoing murderous activities of
                                   the U S A in Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Iraq, Afghanistan, along
                                   with a few bombings in “Friendly” Pakistan, all with an
                                   underlying “Crusading” Christian motivation and justification.
                                   It is no coincidence that those nations listed are also not
                                   Caucasian either

                                   My apologies for my absence. You see I was keeping night time
                                   vigil alongside my, cancer ridden, dying (atheist) son when I
                                   suddenly found myself being whisked from that hospital by a
                                   Flying Doctor to the State Capital for open heart surgery and
                                   a bypass job, my son dying in my absence. Well, from neither
                                   episode, did I experience a conversion on the road to
                                   Damascus.  No blinding lights nor visitations. My only
                                   request, from my son, just prior to my attack, was.  “Put me
                                   down”. Unfortunately not a request to which I could accede. 
                                   He died, and I still live, both, still, atheistic. 

                                   I am not looking for sympathy but for my American readers.  My
                                   son’s sojourn was three days in the General Hospital, then
                                   moved to the Palliative Care wing for a further seven days. A
                                   sofa bed was supplied to me with breakfast each morning, until
                                   my enforced departure when my daughter replaced me as watch
                                   keeper. My flight by Royal Flying Doctor, with ambulance
                                   transfers at each end, was followed by the operation then ten
                                   days in recovery, with all the care and attention one could
                                   possibly ask for along with first class cuisine. I couldn’t
                                   fault, in any way from the beginning to the final act where I
                                   was transferred by a private mini bus back to my country
                                   hospital, for final evaluation and discharge,  with the
                                   recovery ward in the State hospital, where the operation took
                                   place, telephoning two weeks after discharge, to check on my
                                   progress. MY cost for this and my son’s care?  Not a nickel. 
                                   All this in a country where attendance to ANY religious
                                   institution’s services is less than twenty five per cent.  The
                                   only religious visitor I saw was a personal one to a Peruvian
                                   gentleman in the ward with me. (Catholic of course). (He has
                                   only been in the country a year but received the same free
                                   treatment). Most of the nurses were not religious.  Now that
                                   is what I would call impartial dedication.

                                   Report this
                                   Leefeller's avatar

                                   By Leefeller, March 27, 2012 at 7:54 pm Link to this comment

                                   Again, I am glad to see this site is still kicking, the recent
                                   Atheist non believer march was nice to see happening, and they
                                   had a good show on MNSBC Sunday morning ‘Up With Chris Hayes”
                                   for me it means I am not alone in my non belief, which is
                                   really amusing when I think on it.

                                   “It is atheists who are the biggest killers.” If true, the
                                   moral of the story is don’t piss off Atheists?  Love such
                                   absolutists statements like this, guess it helps the meaning
                                   when one sees the light and decides not to believe?

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_]

                                   By grin1020, March 27, 2012 at 6:22 pm Link to this comment

                                   By the way, that crack about God taking the wrong boy was very
                                   mean-spirited indeed…it made me sad until I realized that one
                                   day I will personally apologize to Thomas. To be associated
                                   with an action that resulted in the death of another is never
                                   forgotten but it is very comforting to know that I will see
                                   him again. I am looking forward to being forgiven by him. Joy
                                   is found in forgiving others. Would any of you agree?

                                   Report this
                                   [icon_profi]

                                   By Dr. Zaius, March 17, 2012 at 6:33 pm Link to this comment
                                   (Unregistered commenter)

                                   The greatest murderers are the Communists who are atheist. 
                                   Mao Tse Tung
                                   murdered 75,000,000 in China, Joseph Stalin murdered
                                   50,000,000 people in the
                                   Soviet Union.  Currently the most repressive and murderous
                                   regime is Communist
                                   NorthKorea.  It is atheists who are the biggest killers.

                                   Report this
                                   Reit1's avatar

                                   By Reit1, March 1, 2012 at 9:47 am Link to this comment

                                   Rebecca was an unhappy troll.  I would respond to the rest of
                                   what you said, but it’s a police state in here with a bunch of
                                   unkind, misguided KGB word nazis.

                                   But that might be why god is not great…nothingness is kind of
                                   boring. :D

                                   Report this
                                   Leefeller's avatar

                                   By Leefeller, March 1, 2012 at 1:25 am Link to this comment

                                   Wow, checking out the new Truth Dig face lift and wondered if
                                   youse guys where still preaching the Atheist Manifestos?  Glad
                                   to see everything is not changed.  Who is Rebecca? Keeping on
                                   topic, God is not as great as you may suppose, which may have
                                   something to do with a lack of existence?

                                   Report this
                                   Reit1's avatar

                                   By Reit1, February 19, 2012 at 8:06 pm Link to this comment

                                   ahahahaha Did we just get sent to the Principal’s office?  :D

                                   Poor Rebecca.  Can dish it out but can’t take it.  Ah well!

                                   Report this

                                   Page 1 of 87 pages  1 2 3 >  Last >>

                                New on Truthdig
VIDEO: Hillary Clinton    Democratic Senators Call The Porter     VIDEO: Does
Laughs When Asked if She  on Obama to End          Ranch Gas      David
Will Release Her Goldman  Deportation Raids on     Leak: Blame    Attenborough
Sachs Speeches            Women and Children       Gov. Jerry     Get
VIDEO: Hillary Clinton    Democratic Senators Call Brown          Depressed?
Laughs When Asked if She  on Obama to End          The Porter     VIDEO: Does
Will Release Her Goldman  Deportation Raids on     Ranch Gas      David
Sachs Speeches            Women and Children       Leak: Blame    Attenborough
                                                   Gov. Jerry     Get
Posted on Jan 23, 2016    Posted on Jan 23, 2016   Brown          Depressed?

                                                   Posted on      Posted on
                                                   Jan 23, 2016   Jan 23, 2016

                                       
                                     • HOME
                               • Ear to the Ground
                               □ All Ear to the ground
                                   □ Larry's List
                                  • Columnists
                                     □ Bill Blum
                                   □ Bill Boyarsky
                                     □ Juan Cole
                               □ Marcia Alesan Dawkins
                                    □ Amy Goodman
                                   □ Chris Hedges
                                 □ Sonali Kolhatkar
                                   □ Robert Scheer
                                  □ Col. Ann Wright
                                       □ More
                                 • Truthdiggers
                                   □ Global Voices
                             □ Truthdiggers of the Week
                              □ Nominate a Truthdigger
                                   • Cartoons
                                   □ Nick Anderson
                                   □ Clay Bennett
                                   □ Jeff Danziger
                                    □ Mark Fiore
                                     □ Mr. Fish
                                  □ Mike Luckovich
                                  □ Signe Wilkinson
                                 □ Holiday Animation
                                   □ All Cartoons
                                • Arts & Culture
                                 □ Author Interview
                                   □ Book Excerpts
                                   □ Book Reviews
                                      □ Essays
                                   □ Film Reviews
                                      □ Poetry
                                     • Digs
                                □ The Death of Truth
                                  □ The Last Letter
                                     □ All Digs
                                  • Multimedia
                                     □ A/V Booth
                                  □ Truthdig Radio
                                   □ Photo Essays
                                     □ Podcasts
                                  □ Q&A: Live Chats
                                     • Shop
                                      □ Bazaar
                               □ Truthdig Merchandise
                                    • Donate

   Truthdig: Drilling Beneath the HeadlinesA Progressive Journal of News and
                                    Opinion
                Publisher Zuade Kaufman | Editor Robert Scheer

About Us | Contact Us | Advertise on Truthdig | User Agreement | Privacy Policy
                               | Comment Policy

                 (C) 2016 Truthdig, LLC. All rights reserved.
                      Website development by Hop Studios

                       Signup for Truthdig's newsletter
                               free hit counters
                                   Quantcast
                                        

                           Like Truthdig on Facebook

                                        
