The Atheist Papers

A critical look at the gospels
[atheist-papers-wordpress]
Skip to content

  • Home
  • About the Atheist Papers
  • Contradictions in Islam
  • List of bible contradictions
  • Science Sundays
  • Send me hate mail

← Older posts

Santa Myth is Not the Same as Religious Myths

Posted on December 25, 2015 by Rayan Zehn

For as far back as I can remember atheist bloggers and others have been drawing
a comparison between telling your children Santa is real and telling your
children they can literally live forever if they believe in Jesus. I’ve
repeated this too, but today I had the following conversation with my
girlfriend about this article (little girl sends her parents middle finger
emoticon after learning the truth about Santa):

santa conversation.jpg

My girlfriend (in red) is a Christian, raised Southern Baptist. She knows my
religious ideas and doesn’t mind at all (but that’s a different post for
another day). But it’s important that she’s a believer and saying this because
it shows us that the belief that telling your kids Santa is real is blockheaded
is not solely the domain of non-believers.

I especially like it how she hits the nail on the head with “I just don’t know
if I want my kids to thank Santa for all the things I worked hard to give
them.” BAM!! I totally agree with this because we should be teaching our kids
to appreciate the value of work and money—and not that material goods can
magically appear (by some fat ass in a red suit who comes down your chimney, no
less).

Most important, and back to the point in the first paragraph, telling your kids
Santa is real is a lie. We know for a fact it’s not true. And, in my opinion,
and in my girlfriend’s opinion, we should not be lying to our children. The
reason I don’t think we should be comparing Santa to Jesus (or any other
religious story) is because we don’t know if it’s true or false. Telling my
children Jesus is really god’s son is not something I’ll ever do, but it hardly
falls under the category of lie. Telling your children something is true when
we don’t know it to be true or false is not the same as telling them something
we know to be false.

And finally—and to repeat an oft-made argument—telling your children the truth
about Santa from day one is a great way to instill healthy skepticism in young
minds.

Posted in Atheism, Uncategorized | Tagged Atheism, Christianity, Christmas,
Religion, Santa Claus | Leave a comment

My Edited Islamic State Flag Is Now More Popular than Allah Himself

Posted on December 2, 2015 by Rayan Zehn

Shortly after last month’s terror attacks in Paris, I noticed a massive surge
in views on my page. Beginning on 14 November until the present my post New
Isis Flag Unveiled has been the most popular article on this site, sometimes by
a daily aggregate factor of five. And holy shit, wouldn’t you know it? So
popular is that article that the image I produced for it is the number two
image on google images when you type “ISIS Flag” into the google search bar,
beaten only by an image of the actual Islamic State flag.

isis flag google.jpg

This post is not to brag. Instead it’s to say good on my readers! Good on the
people who click on the image, sending metadata to google to boost it on their
list. Good on google for not censoring the image. Good on everyone who has a
good sense of humor even when having one can sometimes be the unpopular thing
to do.

Also note the image directly beneath mine. While that image is rather racist,
it’s good to see people poking fun at the Islamic State without fear of some
moral backlash.

Posted in Atheism, Uncategorized | Tagged Allah, Atheism, Daesh, Islam, Islamic
State, Muhammad, Religion | Leave a comment

Hunger (Strikes) Games: Palestinian Prisoners in Israel

Posted on November 8, 2015 by Rayan Zehn

This post has little to do with religion (aside from the Israel/Palestine
debate), but I thought the subject worthy of an article on this blog.

In 2012 Palestinian prisoners being held indefinitely in Israeli jails staged a
massive and highly successful hunger strike that compelled the Israeli
government and military forces to give into the Palestinians’ demands. This was
an incredible achievement, but game theoretical literature on this topic is
scant (actually it straight up does not exist). So lately I’ve been developing
my own model to explain the prisoners’ and Israel’s actions.

If you’re familiar with game theory and extensive form games, this will make
the most sense to you, and I ask for feedback (good or bad) because this is not
a fully developed model (I haven’t even gotten to the maths yet). Please note I
had to make some inferences about each players’ preferences. These might not
reflect reality, but they’re as close as I can assume at this point.

hunger strike game

The rudimentarily designed game above is quite long, so I divided it into two
parts.

To illustrate this game, assume Player 1 is a suspected Palestinian
militant who is being held indefinitely in an Israeli prison without trial. He
wants to protest these conditions and force the Israeli government to give him
a fair trial. The prisoner is aware of hunger strikes as a tool because he has
seen it successfully used in this prison. He is also aware that some hunger
strikers die playing this game. He is willing to take that risk and is willing
to die if Player 2 (Israel) does not give into his demands. For the purpose of
simplicity, I will call the prisoner “He” and the Israeli government “She.”

At the first node, Player 1 decides to go on a hunger strike (HS) or not (~HS).
If he plays ~HS then status quo is maintained and the payouts are -10, 10. Here
Player 2 gets 10 because she has interest in keeping the prisoner in prison and
also has interest in preventing mass media coverage of yet another hunger
strike in Israeli prisons. Player 1 gets -10 because he loses any potential
media coverage that could draw public attention to his plight. He also must
remain in prison without trial.

If he plays HS the game moves on to the next node. At node 2 the Israeli
government must decide whether to resist Player 1’s demands (R) or acquiesce
and give into those demands (A). If she plays A the payouts are 5, 5. She
receives 5 because she has given into Player 1’s demands but also prevented
mass media coverage or a mass hunger strike. Player 1 gets 5 because his
demands are met but no attention has been brought to his case. He still must go
to trial with ineffective, indigent counselor.

If she plays R the game moves on to the next node. At node 3 Player 1 again
must decide between HS and ~HS. If he plays ~HS he ends his hunger strike and
the game is over. The payouts are now -8, 8. He receives -8 because he is still
in prison. His payouts are a little better than if He played ~HS in the first
node because now there is media attention about his case. He gets a slightly
better lawyer to represent him (even though there’s still no trial). Player 2
receives 8 because she lost some of the payout from the first node but the
amount of media attention is small.

If he plays HS the game moves on to the next node. At node 4 Player 2 decides
between R and A. If A, the game is over. Player 1 receives a trial and maybe a
better lawyer. Payout is 7, 3. Media attention has diminished Player 2’s
payout.

At each node the payouts increasingly turn in the prisoner’s favor, alternating
between negative values for ~HS and positive values for A. This diminishes the
Israeli government’s payouts for each players’ respective plays. This gives
Player 1 incentive to continue the game as long as possible. It also gives
Player 2 incentive to end the game as soon as possible… just not yet. At most
plays of HS, Player 2 can do better by playing R and hoping Player 1 plays ~HS
at the next node. This changes as the game nears the point of Player 1’s death.
At Player 2’s last point of play she will play A, giving into the hunger
striker before Player 1 can play Death.

This game can continue theoretically in perpetuity until Player 1 dies.
Although it is unlikely to get this far because Player 2 will acquiesce before
this point, the payouts at death are 10, 0. By now massive media coverage is
following the strike, bringing discredit to the Israeli government. Other
prisoners have started their own hunger strikes in solidarity. This and the
fact that Player 1 becomes a martyr give Player 1 his best payout even though
he is not alive to enjoy it.

However, at the final node, when Player 1 knows death is imminent but survival
is still possible, he can choose ~HS, which will make the payout 0, 2. Mass
media coverage has brought a lot of attention to his plight, but he remains in
an Israeli prison without trial. Not even his pro bono lawyer can help him now.

In order to solve this game I am using backwards induction to find subgame
perfect equilibrium. In sum Player 1 is choosing to die and Player 2 always
plays R until the last node she can play.

 1. Player 1 plays HS (if Player 2 plays A at next node 5 > -10)
 2. Player 2 plays R (if Player 1 plays ~HS at next node 8 > 5)
 3. Player 1 plays HS (if Player 2 plays A at next node 7 > -8)
 4. Player 2 plays R (if Player 1 plays ~HS at next node 4 > 3)
 5. Player 1 plays HS (if Player 2 plays A at next node 9 > -4)
 6. Player 2 plays A (no matter what Player 1 does in final node 2 > 1, 2 > 0)
 7. Player 1 plays HS (and dies) (10 > 1)

Equilibrium <HS, HS, HS, HS (and dies); R, R, A>

Please note that this applies only to the Palestinian Prisoner case,
particularly the 2012 mass hunger strike. Some hunger strikes have been less
successful for the protestors. For example, in the case of the massive
California prison hunger strike in 2013, the vast majority (~99.7%) of the
29,000 protestors gave up their hunger strikes on their own very early in the
game. The remaining ~0.3% gave up their hunger strikes when an appeals court
threatened to begin force feeding (which is a different game).

Posted in Political Science | Tagged Atheism, game theory, Israel, Palestine,
political science, Religion | Leave a comment

The Best Way to Convert an Atheist to Religion Is to Become an Atheist

Posted on October 28, 2015 by Rayan Zehn

The title above is probably not only provocative; it’s also highly
counterintuitive. But please bear with me. Before I approach the religious part
of this post—that it’s easier to convert an atheist to religion if you’re an
atheist—I’m going to provide you with an example from another area we probably
all have experience with.

Let’s imagine you have a friend who is biased left or right politically. If
left, they probably get their news from MSNBC or Think Progress or countless
other left biased sources. If they are biased right, they probably get their
news from Fox News. For the sake of this example, let’s strictly focus on a
person who is right biased and who therefore watches Fox News more than any
other source. If Fox News talk shows consistently report that same-sex marriage
(for example) is wrong, then the right biased viewer will believe them. If the
right biased viewer switches channels to MSNBC and hears Rachel Maddow argue
that same-sex marriage is not wrong, then the right biased person is going to
roll their eyes and disagree. I mean, right bias necessarily means they won’t
trust someone with left bias. It makes perfect sense. This even goes so far as
unbiased reporters. Let’s say a middle-of-the-road reporter says same-sex
marriage is not wrong. The right biased person has no reason to trust her. But…

Let’s say the right biased person switches back to Bill O’Reilly. And Bill
changes his mind about same-sex marriage and informs his viewers that same-sex
marriage is not wrong, then the right biased viewer must make sense of this
unexpected information coming from a right biased source and will be much more
inclined to re-evaluate his position. Because he trusts Bill, he is going to
look at this unexpected position in new light, and it’s much more likely that
he’ll change positions himself. At least, it’s much, much, much more likely
than if he heard this information from Rachel Maddow.

Speaking of Rachel Maddow, this goes a different way as well. Let’s say Rachel
Maddow changed her opinion about same-sex marriage, what kind of belief updates
would you expect from a right biased person? Precisely none because it would
only serve to reinforce right biased positions, but that’s not really
important.

I’m sure you can see exactly where I’m going with this.

If a religious person tells an atheist that Jesus loves him or Mohammad’s Quran
is the truth, don’t expect any chance of conversion. The odds of a religious
person converting most atheists who’ve been a non-believer for—let’s say—longer
than a year is essentially zero. Atheists have no reason to believe a believer
merely because the believer is speaking. Atheists and theists disagree on a
fundamental aspect of all religions. But if—instead of a religious person
explaining why god exists—an atheist changed her position on the existence of
god, she would have more luck (slightly better than zero). The unexpected
information will force some atheists to re-evaluate their own position and
possibly change positions themselves.

I’m expecting some level of criticism here, so let me try to predict those
points and address them.

This in no way means atheists are likely to convert merely because another
atheist converted; it means, instead, that atheists are more likely to consider
information from a converted former atheist than they are a lifelong theist.
Then again, at the exact moment when the converted ex-atheist’s arguments sound
identical to regular theist arguments, they’re going to lose the utility of
being an ex-atheist. Atheists, therefore, are very likely to give the
ex-atheist about two minutes before reverting back to atheist bias.

There’s also the problem with lying. If a theist knows it’s easier to convert
an atheist if they are an ex-atheist, then the theist is more likely to lie,
pretending to be an ex-atheist. This happens so much that atheists should be
naturally skeptical about claims of being a former atheist. And with that being
said, the skepticism of such a claim is sufficient enough to dismantle my
entire argument above.

Then again, let’s say your best friend is a lifelong atheist who you’ve known
and talked about religion with for twenty years. Let’s also say he converted to
[some religion] tomorrow. This is where you are more likely to hear him out.
He’s not some random evangelist with dubious claims of former atheism. This is
your best friend. And the same might be true for some trusted non-best friends.
If Richard Dawkins came out a Catholic tomorrow, I think most atheists would be
willing to hear him out. He’s a smart guy; he might have a point.

Post script: We can prove this with the Bayesian Theorem.

Posted in Political Science | Tagged Atheism, Christianity, game theory, God,
Religion | 3 Comments

A Quick Quote from a Research Project I’m Working On

Posted on October 25, 2015 by Rayan Zehn

One of the main projects I’m tasked with this semester is to empirically
analyze Islam in contemporary Europe since March 11, 2004. To do this I’m using
World Values Survey data. Doing this as someone who is biased against Islam is
particularly challenging, which is why I am undertaking this study; I want to
prove to myself that I can be objective despite my biases. And wouldn’t you
know it? The facts don’t fit my beliefs. Instead the facts have forced me to
adopt better beliefs.

I’ll be writing up a brief post about my findings in December, but for now I
leave you with a quote from my research that perfectly sums up my findings.

    Secular Europe is not becoming more Islamic; instead, Islamic Europe is
    becoming more secular.

All it takes is a little security and a few new freedoms, and radical Islam
melts away like butter.

Of course, radical Islam is still a thing in Europe, but it’s the product of
something else, which I will address later.

Posted in Politics | Tagged Atheism, Islam, political science, radical Islam,
Religion | Leave a comment

Want to Legally Stop Evangelism? Become the State

Posted on October 23, 2015 by Rayan Zehn

I work for a publicly funded university. My office is small and windowless and
has three computers shared between considerably more than three grad students.
Whenever I feel cramped or frustrated I go outside and sit in the sun, watching
all the undergrads go about their busy lives. I’m very much a people watcher,
nostalgic for an easier life when my only stress was a chemistry exam. I enjoy
living vicariously through them, spying on their academic lives for five
minutes at a time. But this puts me directly in their paths, and some of these
students are evangelical Christians who pick up on my curiosity, perhaps
mistaking it for a search?

One young man in particular often uses the commons area right outside my
building to spend time with young, impressionable students who perhaps are
searching for something. That’s ok. He has every right to spread his religious
beliefs…

…but he can’t have that conversation with me. I mean—literally—I’m not legally
allowed to have that conversation with him.

You see, the wall of separation is not merely to prevent evangelical Christians
from using state institutions as a platform for proselytizing; it also prevents
me from using state institutions as a platform for telling them they’re wrong.

In my case, and from a legal perspective, I am the state. And, much like
Christian or Muslim, et al, teachers can lose their jobs if they try to convert
their students, I can lose my job if I attempt to shoot down students’
religious beliefs.

When it comes to my position at my university I am neither religious nor
atheist.

I’ve purposely framed much of this post in a context that should be a sigh of
relief for religious students who wish to use the university as a means of
conversion. You, as a student, have every right to do that, but my right to
tell you you’re wrong ends the moment I arrive on campus to perform my official
duties. But there’s a downside; I legally cannot have these conversations with
you, which means I am legally required to shoot down any attempts to convert
me before they start. If you ask me if I’ve heard about your faith, please
don’t be offended if I simply walk away. It’s not worth losing my job to tell
you I don’t believe in god.

This obviously makes things very easy for me. The young man I mentioned above?
Thankfully he took my decline with stride. On the other hand, however, I have
had this conversation with him. And he knows I am not interested in his
religion. But I didn’t tell him at the university; I told him when he knocked
on my door trying to sell god.

Posted in Uncategorized | Tagged Atheism, Christianity, God, Religion | 1
Comment

Using Bayes’ Rule to Disprove Jesus Is a Double-Edged Sword

Posted on October 21, 2015 by Rayan Zehn

Last year historian Richard Carrier published On the Historicity of Jesus: Why
We Might Have Reason for Doubt. While I haven’t read it (and therefore don’t
plan on critiquing it now), it is on my reading list. As a grad student who
messes around with Bayes’ Rule, it’s interesting to see its applications. But
I’m especially skeptical of Carrier’s book because, while Bayes’ Rule is right,
we can use it to make some very wrong assumptions. And we can create some very
contradictory states of the world.

Again, while I haven’t read Carrier’s book, I can probably safely assume his
equation looks something like this:

bayes rule2

Although I could be wrong wrong, and if I am please correct me. I’m assuming
he’s using this equation because it posits a dichotomy; either Jesus existed or
he did not (that’s the bottom part of equation). Basically, applied to the
historicity of Jesus, this equation determines the probability of Jesus
existing given no historical evidence for his existence. We can work this out
quite easily, but we don’t have to because I’m certain we’d find the answer is
essentially zero. This is probably the kind of reasoning Carrier uses in his
book.

And to stress yet a third time, this is not a critique of his book because I
haven’t read it. But rather, this post is to serve as a warning to you
mathematicians out there who want to use these equations as proof. It can be
very misleading if you’re not careful.

To put this into another context let’s look at the bible. There are indeed many
instances of the bible getting something right, be it moral, ethical,
historical, or even scientific (Jeremiah 33:22, for example, or incalculable
sand and stars). We can determine the likelihood that god exists given these
predictions or estimations. If we ignore what the bible got wrong, we can very
easily prove the bible is very likely to be inspired by god. Essentially we can
prove we live in a world where Jesus exists with Bayes’ Rule if we’re willing
to go down that rabbit hole.

I hope you can see the contradiction. Bayes’ Rule can simultaneously be used to
prove that Jesus didn’t exist and that Jesus did exist at the same time! But
the good news is that once we do that we’re left right where we started; either
Jesus existed or he didn’t. Both can’t be true at the same time, no matter what
Bayes’ Rule proves. So the moral is: Be very careful with Bayes’ Rule.

Eventually I’ll get around to Carrier’s book. Maybe he did some more advanced
math, making this article even less applicable to him. And if that’s the case,
I’m sure I’ll enjoy reading and checking his work.

Posted in Uncategorized | Tagged Atheism, Christianity, God, Jesus, Religion,
the bible | Leave a comment
← Older posts

  • Search for: [                    ] [Search]
  • Recent Posts

      □ Santa Myth is Not the Same as Religious Myths
      □ My Edited Islamic State Flag Is Now More Popular than Allah Himself
      □ Hunger (Strikes) Games: Palestinian Prisoners in Israel
      □ The Best Way to Convert an Atheist to Religion Is to Become an Atheist
      □ A Quick Quote from a Research Project I’m Working On
  • Recent Comments

    [7ab2] Dan on Neil deGrasse Tyson’s 7%…
    [b321] Vincent Pierce on According to the bible, we liv…
    [36a7] agrudzinsky on Bible Contradictions #5: Who s…
    [63ed] Adam on Quran Contradictions #4: Is al…
    [18e6] Shane on Bible Contradictions #5: Who s…
  • Archives

      □ December 2015
      □ November 2015
      □ October 2015
      □ September 2015
      □ August 2015
      □ July 2015
      □ June 2015
      □ May 2015
      □ April 2015
      □ March 2015
      □ February 2015
      □ January 2015
      □ December 2014
      □ November 2014
      □ October 2014
      □ September 2014
      □ August 2014
      □ July 2014
      □ June 2014
      □ May 2014
      □ April 2014
      □ March 2014
      □ February 2014
      □ January 2014
      □ December 2013
  • Categories

      □ Atheism
      □ Bible Contradictions
      □ Music
      □ Political Science
      □ Politics
      □ Psychology
      □ Quran Contradictions
      □ Research
      □ Satire
      □ Science
      □ Science Sundays
      □ Self-Immolation
      □ skepticism
      □ Uncategorized
  • Meta

      □ Register
      □ Log in
      □ Entries RSS
      □ Comments RSS
      □ WordPress.com
  • 

      □ [fe]

  • Search for: [                    ] [Search]
  • Recent Posts

      □ Santa Myth is Not the Same as Religious Myths
      □ My Edited Islamic State Flag Is Now More Popular than Allah Himself
      □ Hunger (Strikes) Games: Palestinian Prisoners in Israel
      □ The Best Way to Convert an Atheist to Religion Is to Become an Atheist
      □ A Quick Quote from a Research Project I’m Working On
  • Recent Comments

    [7ab2] Dan on Neil deGrasse Tyson’s 7%…
    [b321] Vincent Pierce on According to the bible, we liv…
    [36a7] agrudzinsky on Bible Contradictions #5: Who s…
    [63ed] Adam on Quran Contradictions #4: Is al…
    [18e6] Shane on Bible Contradictions #5: Who s…
  • Archives

      □ December 2015
      □ November 2015
      □ October 2015
      □ September 2015
      □ August 2015
      □ July 2015
      □ June 2015
      □ May 2015
      □ April 2015
      □ March 2015
      □ February 2015
      □ January 2015
      □ December 2014
      □ November 2014
      □ October 2014
      □ September 2014
      □ August 2014
      □ July 2014
      □ June 2014
      □ May 2014
      □ April 2014
      □ March 2014
      □ February 2014
      □ January 2014
      □ December 2013
  • Categories

      □ Atheism
      □ Bible Contradictions
      □ Music
      □ Political Science
      □ Politics
      □ Psychology
      □ Quran Contradictions
      □ Research
      □ Satire
      □ Science
      □ Science Sundays
      □ Self-Immolation
      □ skepticism
      □ Uncategorized
  • Meta

      □ Register
      □ Log in
      □ Entries RSS
      □ Comments RSS
      □ WordPress.com

The Atheist Papers
The Twenty Ten Theme. Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
The Atheist Papers
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. The Twenty Ten Theme.
Follow

Follow “The Atheist Papers”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 320 other followers

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
