FreeThoughtAction
HOME | ABOUT | PRESS | BLOG | RESOURCES | STORE | DONATE | EVENTS | LINKS |
CONTACT
                        Help America Evolve
                        [ftabillboard6e]

                        With all the endless God talk from
                        preachers and politicians you might
                        think you're the only nonreligious
                        person in America.

                        Not true! Tens of millions of your
                        fellow Americans are not religious. In
                        fact, the number of secular Americans
                        has more than doubled over the past
                        twenty years while the number of
                        religious Americans has actually
                        dropped. Nonreligious Americans now
                        outnumber Jews, Muslims, Hindus,
                        Buddhists, Lutherans, Presbyterians,
                        Episcopalians, Jehovah's Witnesses and
                        Mormons combined.

                        Together we can help America evolve
                        into a more rational, less
                        superstitious society. FreeThought
                        Action gives you a way to combine your
                        voice with others who reject
                        supernatural explanations of human life
                        and our origins. We're using
                        traditional marketing and the internet
                        to encourage secular Americans to speak
                        up and to persuade those sitting on the
                        fence that it's a great time to GetReal
                        .

                        We hope you'll join us to promote
                        eyes-wide-open facts, not blind faith,
                        as the foundation of our society.

                        Here's how you can help:


                        10 Things You Can Do

                        Speak Up

                        Come out, come out wherever you are!
                        Let your family, friends, colleagues,
                        and community know you are a proud
                        freethinker (or whichever term -
                        atheist, agnostic, humanist, bright,
                        etc. - works for you). Just letting
                        others see a real, live freethinker
                        like you helps make people more
                        comfortable and shows them that leaving
                        superstition behind is a viable option.

                        Stand Up                                Affiliations...
Introducing the
                        Stand up loudly and proudly for your    Secular
FREETHOUGHT ACTION HERO reality-based life! Contact the media   Directory
AWARD                   and public officials when you feel they
                        haven't given your views the            UnitedCoR
FREETHOUGHT             consideration they deserve. Be nice,
ACTION HERO Award       but don't be shy. Unless we say "ouch"  AHA
                        when our toes get stepped on we can
      ━━━━━━━━━━━       expect nothing but sore toes.           Openly Secular
What people are saying
about our billboards... Ante Up                                 Freethought
[wpas01]                                                        Group
                        Help us bring the "You are not alone"   Organizers
One Nation Indivisible  message to freethinkers across the
One of six billboards   country. Every penny of web-donated      ━━━━━━━━━━━━
that went up in         dollars goes toward putting up          
NC--from the mountains  billboards or placing print or web ads. Friends...
to the sea--over the    FreeThoughtAction is a 501(c)(3)
2010 July 4th holiday.  non-profit organization so donations    RDF
                        are tax deductible to the full extent
Contribute              of the law. Click HERE to donate to our MAAF
                        media fund.
GetReal                                                         Camp Quest
                        Dress Up
Stuff                                                           Secular
                        T-shirts, hats, buttons and bumper      Coalition of
Email Newsletter icon,  stickers allow you to become a walking  America
E-mail Newsletter icon, - or driving - billboard. All profits
Email List icon, E-mail go toward placing more media, so you    Secular Student
 List icon Sign up for  get double bang for your buck. Go to    Alliance
 our Email Newsletter   our online store HERE.
[                    ]                                          Atheist Nexus
         [GO]           Talk it Up
 [safe_subscribe_logo]                                          ┌─────────────┐
                        Turn your secular friends onto          │embed        │
                        FreeThoughtAction. Email them a link by │(            │
Foundation Beyond       clicking HERE.                          │aabanner.swf)│
Belief                                                          └─────────────┘
                        Read Up
Darwin Day                                                      Stiefel
                        Visit our blog FreeThoughts to keep up  Freethought
Secular Seasons         with, and to comment on, news items and Foundation
                        features relating to freethought and
                        religion HERE.

                        Link Up

                        There are many great freethinker groups
                        and schools of thought. We welcome them
                        all and exist to enhance, not replace,
                        their efforts. Click HERE to see a list
                        of some of the organizations that may
                        be of interest to you.

                        Join Up

                        We're always looking for people willing
                        to donate their time and talents. Drop
                        us a line HERE and tell us how you'd
                        like to help.

                        Act Up

                        We are building a section of resources
                        for activists. It will include
                        billboard, poster, and public display
                        art and designs, flyers and pamphlets
                        that can be distributed, ideas for
                        events and demonstrations, banner ads
                        and buttons that may be used on your
                        site, as well as other promotional and
                        educational materials that we hope you
                        may find useful. This section is in its
                        early stages and we welcome your input
                        and ideas to help it grow. To see what
                        we have so far, click HERE.

                        Sign up

                        Keep up with the action and the
                        progress we're making. We'll share
                        local and nationwide activities and
                        ideas to advance the cause. Sign up
                        below for our Email Newsletter. (We
                        will always respect your privacy, you
                        may unsubscribe at any time.)


                             Email Newsletter icon, E-mail
                           Newsletter icon, Email List icon,
                        E-mail List icon Sign up for our Email
                        Newsletter [                    ] [GO] 
                                 [safe_subscribe_logo]



                        (C) Copyright 2006 - 2015 FreeThought
                        Action.org

HOME | ABOUT | PRESS | BLOG | RESOURCES | STORE | DONATE | EVENTS | LINKS |
CONTACT

