The Godless Family Resource
Skip to content

  • Home
  • Blog
      □ List of posts
      □ About our bloggers
  • Lessons
      □ Lesson Plans
      □ About lesson plans
  • Themes
  • Webcast
      □ Upcoming Episodes
      □ Previous Episodes
      □ Webcast Description
  • Contact

Home

The Godless Family Resource is a website devoted to providing families with
educational materials on topics important to atheists, agnostics, nonbelievers,
and humanists.  The goal is to provide a variety of resources on a variety of
topics for parents and children to choose from.  Below is a description of each
format.

Blog

The Godless Family Blog is maintained by a team of writers, all godless
parents.  Each writer is encourage to draw from research or personal experience
when they write a post.  Whenever possible, a writer will create links to
resources or suggest additional reading in an effort to further our mission as
a resource for godless parents.  All webcasts are also placed inside of a blog
post.

Have a question that you’d like one of GodlessFamily’s bloggers to answer,
email us at godlessfamily[at]gmail[dot]com.

Take-and-Teach Lesson Plans

This part of the website contains ready-made lesson plans for parents and group
organizers.  It’s purpose is to help parents and groups provide meaningful and
engaging lessons for young people with a science or humanist focus.

The lessons are ready-made, meaning that with the exception of locating some
material likes art supplies, a parent or educator should be able to download
the lesson and accompanying attachments and simply present the lesson, hence
the name take-and-teach.  This eases the burden on educators who wish to
supplement a child’s education with something that has a secular or humanist
focus.

If you’re interested in submitting your own lesson plans to this website,
please review submission guidelines first.

Themes

The themes section of the website contains a list of resources including books,
websites, and activity ideas for parents who aren’t interested a formal lesson
format.  The comments section will be open on all themes pages in order to
allow parents to share ideas and resources.

Webcast

The Godless Family Webcast is changing its format.  You can still watch
previous episodes in the blog section of this website or on our Youtube
channel.  The new format is not live.  Aubrey or Amanda will be retelling
stories from religious texts, including the Bible, to an audience which will
then ask questions about the story.  The purpose is to point out the
ridiculousness of how these stories are used in not only a religious context
but in general.  Questions asked will raise concerns regarding validity,
morality, appropriateness, etc.  The new format is meant to be funny and
informative and is designed with families in mind.  Launch date is early March.

Because everything is free, please consider supporting the Godless Family
Resource by visiting our sponsor pages.

Subscribe to Blog via Email

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of
new posts by email.

Join 4 other subscribers

Email Address

[Subscribe]

Recent Posts

  • The harm in teaching holidays at school
  • How to teach critical thinking
  • My son has ADHD, and I’m not sad
  • The Sunday Short Story: Evolution
  • The Sunday Short Story: The Big Bang!

Please visit our sponsors

besecular besecular Get 10% off with code TGFR
Copyright 2014
Logo by http://phylliscopeland.daportfolio.com
Iconic One Theme | Powered by Wordpress
Visit Us On TwitterVisit Us On FacebookVisit Us On Google Plus
