  • register
  • sign in

 Goodreads: Book reviews, recommendations, and discussion
[                    ]
Loading trans
search
  • Home
  • My Books
  • Friends
  • Recommendations
  • Explore
  • 
      □ Genres
      □ Listopia
      □ Giveaways
      □ Choice Awards
      □ Popular
      □ Goodreads Voice
      □ Ebooks
      □ Fun
      □ Trivia
      □ Quizzes
      □ Quotes
      □ Community
      □ Groups
      □ Creative Writing
      □ People
      □ Events
     

Get quotes daily
Facebook Sign in with Facebook
Sign in
options
Join Goodreads

Quotes About Atheism

Quotes tagged as "atheism" (showing 1-30 of 1,248)
Charles Bukowski
“For those who believe in God, most of the big questions are answered. But for
those of us who can't readily accept the God formula, the big answers don't
remain stone-written. We adjust to new conditions and discoveries. We are
pliable. Love need not be a command nor faith a dictum. I am my own god. We are
here to unlearn the teachings of the church, state, and our educational system.
We are here to drink beer. We are here to kill war. We are here to laugh at the
odds and live our lives so well that Death will tremble to take us.”
― Charles Bukowski
tags: atheism, religion
6775 likes
Like

George Carlin
“Religion has actually convinced people that there's an invisible man living in
the sky who watches everything you do, every minute of every day. And the
invisible man has a special list of ten things he does not want you to do. And
if you do any of these ten things, he has a special place, full of fire and
smoke and burning and torture and anguish, where he will send you to live and
suffer and burn and choke and scream and cry forever and ever 'til the end of
time!

But He loves you. He loves you, and He needs money! He always needs money! He's
all-powerful, all-perfect, all-knowing, and all-wise, somehow just can't handle
money!”
― George Carlin
tags: atheism, humor, life, religion
5507 likes
Like

Richard Dawkins
“We are all atheists about most of the gods that humanity has ever believed in.
Some of us just go one god further.”
― Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion
tags: atheism, philosophy
3359 likes
Like

C.S. Lewis
“Atheism turns out to be too simple. If the whole universe has no meaning, we
should never have found out that it has no meaning...”
― C.S. Lewis
tags: atheism, religion
2844 likes
Like

Douglas Adams
“Isn't it enough to see that a garden is beautiful without having to believe
that there are fairies at the bottom of it too?”
― Douglas Adams, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
tags: atheism, religion, skeptic
2451 likes
Like

Christopher Hitchens
“Owners of dogs will have noticed that, if you provide them with food and water
and shelter and affection, they will think you are god. Whereas owners of cats
are compelled to realize that, if you provide them with food and water and
shelter and affection, they draw the conclusion that they are gods.”
― Christopher Hitchens, The Portable Atheist: Essential Readings for the
Nonbeliever
tags: affection, atheism, cats, dogs, food, god, pets, religion, shelter, water
2230 likes
Like

Christopher Hitchens
“That which can be asserted without evidence, can be dismissed without
evidence.”
― Christopher Hitchens
tags: atheism, reason, science, skeptic
2133 likes
Like

Ernest Hemingway
“All thinking men are atheists.”
― Ernest Hemingway, A Farewell to Arms
tags: atheism, inspirational
2020 likes
Like

Friedrich Nietzsche
“Is man merely a mistake of God's? Or God merely a mistake of man?”
― Friedrich Nietzsche
tags: atheism, organized-religion, paradox, religion
1719 likes
Like

Woody Allen
“To you, I'm an atheist.
To God, I'm the loyal opposition.”
― Woody Allen
tags: absurd, atheism, humor
1674 likes
Like

Kurt Vonnegut
“Being a Humanist means trying to behave decently without expectation of
rewards or punishment after you are dead.”
― Kurt Vonnegut
tags: afterlife, atheism, humanism, secularism
1588 likes
Like

Voltaire
“Those who can make you believe absurdities, can make you commit atrocities.”
― Voltaire, Questions sur les Miracles à M. Claparede, Professeur de Théologie
à Genève, par un Proposant: Ou Extrait de Diverses Lettres de M. de Voltaire
tags: absurdities, atheism, atrocities, barbarity, injustice, religion,
skepticism
1385 likes
Like

Douglas Adams
“I'd take the awe of understanding over the awe of ignorance any day.”
― Douglas Adams, The Salmon of Doubt
tags: atheism, intelligence
1246 likes
Like

Thomas Jefferson
“The legitimate powers of government extend to such acts only as are injurious
to others. It does me no injury for my neighbor to say there are twenty gods or
no god. It neither picks my pocket nor breaks my leg.”
― Thomas Jefferson
tags: atheism, philosophy, religion
1123 likes
Like

Isaac Asimov
“Properly read, the Bible is the most potent force for atheism ever conceived.”
― Isaac Asimov
tags: atheism, bible, organized-religion, religion
1025 likes
Like

Richard Dawkins
“There is something infantile in the presumption that somebody else has a
responsibility to give your life meaning and point… The truly adult view, by
contrast, is that our life is as meaningful, as full and as wonderful as we
choose to make it.”
― Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion
tags: atheism, existentialism, follow-your-bliss, self-actualization,
self-determination
1022 likes
Like

Napoléon Bonaparte
“Religion is excellent stuff for keeping common people quiet. Religion is what
keeps the poor from murdering the rich.”
― Napoléon Bonaparte
tags: atheism, organized-religion, religion
998 likes
Like

Emmett F. Fields
“Atheism is more than just the knowledge that gods do not exist, and that
religion is either a mistake or a fraud. Atheism is an attitude, a frame of
mind that looks at the world objectively, fearlessly, always trying to
understand all things as a part of nature.”
― Emmett F. Fields
tags: atheism, misattributed-to-carl-sagan, religion
997 likes
Like

Epicurus
“Is God willing to prevent evil, but not able? Then he is not omnipotent.
Is he able, but not willing? Then he is malevolent.
Is he both able and willing? Then whence cometh evil?
Is he neither able nor willing? Then why call him God?”
― Epicurus
tags: atheism, god, religion
979 likes
Like

Albert Camus
“I do not believe in God and I am not an atheist.”
― Albert Camus, Notebooks 1951-1959
tags: atheism, god, religion
931 likes
Like

Christopher Hitchens
“To terrify children with the image of hell, to consider women an inferior
creation—is that good for the world?”
― Christopher Hitchens
tags: atheism, child-abuse, children, feminism, hell, religion,
religion-and-children, rhetorical-questions, sexism, women, women-and-religion
911 likes
Like

Alan Moore
“Stood in firelight, sweltering. Bloodstain on chest like map of violent new
continent. Felt cleansed. Felt dark planet turn under my feet and knew what
cats know that makes them scream like babies in night.

Looked at sky through smoke heavy with human fat and God was not there. The
cold, suffocating dark goes on forever and we are alone. Live our lives,
lacking anything better to do. Devise reason later. Born from oblivion; bear
children, hell-bound as ourselves, go into oblivion. There is nothing else.

Existence is random. Has no pattern save what we imagine after staring at it
for too long. No meaning save what we choose to impose. This rudderless world
is not shaped by vague metaphysical forces. It is not God who kills the
children. Not fate that butchers them or destiny that feeds them to the dogs.
It’s us. Only us. Streets stank of fire. The void breathed hard on my heart,
turning its illusions to ice, shattering them. Was reborn then, free to scrawl
own design on this morally blank world.

Was Rorschach.

Does that answer your Questions, Doctor?”
― Alan Moore, Watchmen
tags: atheism, war
770 likes
Like

Mark Twain
“The Bible has noble poetry in it... and some good morals and a wealth of
obscenity, and upwards of a thousand lies.”
― Mark Twain
tags: agnosticism, atheism, bible, christianity, mythology, truth
757 likes
Like

George Carlin
“Atheism is a non-prophet organization.”
― George Carlin
tags: atheism
757 likes
Like

Robert Anton Wilson
“belief is the death of intelligence.”
― Robert Anton Wilson, Cosmic Trigger: Die letzten Geheimnisse der Illuminaten
oder An den Grenzen des erweiterten Bewusstseins
tags: atheism, belief, faith, intelligence, metaphysics, philosophy, religion
725 likes
Like

Woody Allen
“If it turns out that there is a God...the worst that you can say about him is
that basically he's an underachiever.”
― Woody Allen
tags: atheism, metaphysics, philosophy
714 likes
Like

Christopher Hitchens
“Human decency is not derived from religion. It precedes it.”
― Christopher Hitchens, God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything
tags: atheism, decency, humanism, religion
692 likes
Like

David Foster Wallace
“Because here's something else that's weird but true: in the day-to day
trenches of adult life, there is actually no such thing as atheism. There is no
such thing as not worshipping. Everybody worships. The only choice we get is
what to worship. And the compelling reason for maybe choosing some sort of god
or spiritual-type thing to worship—be it JC or Allah, be it YHWH or the Wiccan
Mother Goddess, or the Four Noble Truths, or some inviolable set of ethical
principles—is that pretty much anything else you worship will eat you alive. If
you worship money and things, if they are where you tap real meaning in life,
then you will never have enough, never feel you have enough. It's the truth.
Worship your body and beauty and sexual allure and you will always feel ugly.
And when time and age start showing, you will die a million deaths before they
finally grieve you. On one level, we all know this stuff already. It's been
codified as myths, proverbs, clichés, epigrams, parables; the skeleton of every
great story. The whole trick is keeping the truth up front in daily
consciousness.”
― David Foster Wallace, This Is Water: Some Thoughts, Delivered on a
Significant Occasion, about Living a Compassionate Life
tags: atheism, god, idols, worship
672 likes
Like

Aleister Crowley
“One would go mad if one took the Bible seriously; but to take it seriously one
must be already mad.”
― Aleister Crowley, Magick: Liber ABA: Book 4
tags: anti-christian, atheism, bible, religion
659 likes
Like

Ayaan Hirsi Ali
“The only position that leaves me with no cognitive dissonance is atheism. It
is not a creed. Death is certain, replacing both the siren-song of Paradise and
the dread of Hell. Life on this earth, with all its mystery and beauty and
pain, is then to be lived far more intensely: we stumble and get up, we are
sad, confident, insecure, feel loneliness and joy and love. There is nothing
more; but I want nothing more.”
― Ayaan Hirsi Ali, Infidel
tags: atheism, death, inspirational, life
607 likes
Like

« previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … 41 42 next »
All Quotes | My Quotes | Add A Quote



Browse By Tag

[atheism             ][Search]
  • love (48678)
  • humor (35852)
  • life (35719)
  • inspirational (34505)
  • philosophy (12178)
  • truth (11880)
  • wisdom (11229)
  • happiness (10084)
  • romance (9636)
  • hope (9611)
  • god (9452)
  • death (8567)
  • writing (7987)
  • funny (7744)
  • faith (7598)

  • poetry (7336)
  • inspirational-quotes (7118)
  • religion (6965)
  • education (6839)
  • inspiration (6784)
  • knowledge (6481)
  • quotes (6386)
  • success (6013)
  • relationships (5793)
  • science (5349)
  • books (5247)
  • spirituality (4533)
  • intelligence (4503)
  • life-lessons (4490)
  • dreams (4322)

More...
(C) 2016 Goodreads Inc

  • about us
  • advertise
  • author program
  • jobs
  • api
  • our blog
  • authors & advertisers blog
  • terms
  • privacy
  • help
  • switch to: mobile version

Welcome back. Just a moment while we sign you in to your Goodreads account.

Login animation
Quantcast *
