Where are we headed?

humanism, atheism, நாத்திகம், am not ok, senseless thoughts, where are we headed?,
et al

●

Saturday, December 14, 2013

Murder, Bigamy, Adultery, Incest, Theft, Dacoity, etc sections of IPC can be
repealed too

Good to be back at blogging after 4 years. In fact, i've been forced to come
back to save time. I'm tired of defending the recent Supreme Court of India
judgement upholding section 377 of IPC in various forums and finally decided to
post a blog (a sarcastic one) which can save my time. I need not type my
opinion on this issue again and again, rather can just quote this as my opinion
and move on. This is in continuation to my previous 2007-08 posts on Abnormal
Sexual Behaviour, Adoption by Homosexuals and Sexual Orientation.

[Indian]


If Homosexuals can demand exemption of IPC 377 by quoting the ‘perceived’ rare
homosexuals acts of over 1000 species, then the following provisions of IPC as
well as many more Statutes can also be scrapped under the same logic, because
the same 1000 living species are also seen exhibiting the following ‘NATURAL’
acts:

299 to 304  -  Culpable Homicide and Murder (animals kill often sometimes due
to injury in fights which is CH and sometimes through planned Murder)

378, 390, 391  - Theft, Robbery and Dacoity (You might think how dacoity? Yes
Hyenas are known for dacoity. lol)

493, 494, 495 & 497 – Concubine, Bigamy and Adultery (animals are known to have
multiple partners)

496  -  Fradulent Marriage

And last but not the least, don’t prosecute people for their Incest
relationship under 376 (there is no separate section for incest), because
animals are predominantly into incestuous relationships.

Are not the above acts ‘ORIENTATION’ too ;) Too many species are seen
exhibiting these acts.

If the above sections are taken out of IPC, then the Government can save lots
of Tax payer money by closing scores of Magistrate courts :)

Apropos, we cannot approve every behaviour that achieves critical mass as
right. If we do that, as mentioned earlier, we will open the Pandora's Box...
Posted by Hamilton Alexander at 8:22 PM 4 comments: ●
Labels: abnormal sex, Adultery, Bigamy, Dacoity, gay adoption, homosexual
adoption, incest, Murder, sexual orientation, Theft, ஓரினச் சேர்க்கை, ஓரினச்சேர்க்கை

Friday, August 07, 2009

Ban on Bus Advertisements

The Madras (Chennai) High Court recently directed the Tamilnadu Transport
department to remove all advertisements from the exteriors of all public and
private transport buses in the state within a timeframe. This was in response
to a PIL filed which contended that these advts distract vehicle users/drivers
and affect the normal transmission of light.

[bus]Though the PIL and ruling is in the interest of general public, i have a
different take on this. As per the recent study, men spend 1 year of their
lifetime ogling at women. It is now evident that we men (ie vehicle users &
drivers) tend to look more at beautiful women on the pavements and nearby than
the advts on the bus :)

Apropos, will the court now direct all the beautiful women to stay away from
road pavements, so that more accidents can be avoided! Another option is, they
can be directed to wear burkha when they come out. Also, what about the
advertisements which are displayed outside the shops. Vehicle users look at
those advts too.

Advts on bus is a revenue generating activity for the cash-starved transport
corporations. Rather than banning them outrightly, the court can restrict their
over exploitation.

previous post >>> Eradicate Black Money & Corruption using IT
Posted by Hamilton Alexander at 4:05 PM 4 comments: ●
Labels: advertisements and accidents, am not ok, ban on bus advertisements, bus
advertisements, dubious court decisions, where are we headed?

Thursday, June 11, 2009

Eradicate Black Money & Corruption using IT

In March 2007, i posted a blog post in which i wrote: the spread of IT would
one day result in death of currency notes/coins. There i also credicted that
process resulting in eradication of Black Money. Recently a reader requested me
to clarify the same. It works like an ERP model. I'll explain the base model
here:

[networked]
There should be a Central Registry (like server) managed by the Government,
which is linked to payroll system of all the employers (govt, pvt, societies,
etc) & vendor payment system of all businesses.

Suppose a person's salary is One Lakh per month, that value/amount is directly
credited to that persons bank account. The same model (ie transfer of VALUE in
electronic form) can be applied for all the transactions (buying/selling). Also
all the bank accounts of a person should be linked to an Unique Identification
Number (UIN) and no person can have more than one UIN. Thus, even if a person
maintains more than one bank account, total assets of that person are
consolidated through UIN account. Based on that, tax shall be automatically
calculated for the total amount (using UIN) and debited to the respective
government accounts.

The same process shall be replicated for vendor payments too. In case of change
in payment structure, the payroll systems and vendor systems should relay those
changes automatically to UIN through the central server. Likewise the system is
linked for every input & output. If there is excess credit (abnormal increase)
over and above the defined limit (ie eligible payment), then the system should
generate a report on the same and automatically forward it to the investigation
department, which shall in turn issue show cause notice.

This system should also have provision for accepting credits as gifts & loans.
However limit for high value gifts should be defined and the system programmed
to reject the same (especially those gifts from vendors to decision makers /
businesses). This will limit corruption to greater extent. Likewise all
transactions can happen over the electronic medium (even alms payment through
mobile credits as mentioned in 2007 post), without the use of paper money.

[death]Purchases can be validated through the combination of smart card /
biometric devices. Thus, when all transactions happen over e-form, all the
earnings/spending of a person is documented and controlled to near perfection.
That would pave way for eradication of black money and limit corruption to
greater extent.

This is just a base model. With better defining and controls at right places,
this can be made a robust system.


previous post >>> Foolproof voting system using EVMs
Posted by Hamilton Alexander at 7:56 PM 2 comments: ●
Labels: am not ok, death of currency, eradicate black money, fighting
corruption, Unique Identification Number, where are we headed?

Wednesday, May 27, 2009

Foolproof Voting System using EVMs

Indian parliamentary elections are just over and few parties & candidates have
started complaining about the manipulation of Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs)
to favour certain parties/candidates. During elections, few EVMs developed
problems and some voters found the red light (confirmation light) glowing near
other candidates than the one they voted for. This resulted in some believing
that EVMs are tampered with. Some believed that the EVM software could be
programmed to favour a particular party.

[foolproof]I have the following suggestions to make the EVM voting process a
foolproof & reliable one:

- Like ATM, the EVMs can give a confirmation slip with the printed symbol to
which we voted. That slip should not have any other identification details of
the voter. ie only the party symbol shall be printed in that slip. That slip
should be dropped in the ballot box kept nearby. This process will give
immediate confirmation to the voter that his vote has gone to the right
candidate. Also in case of future disputes, the ballot box votes can be counted
and final decision can be arrived at.

- If booth capturing or mass bogus voting is reported from a booth, then for
that booth alone, don't add the votes polled by that party. ie if A party gets
121 votes, B party gets 253 votes and others get 75 votes and if A party
indulges in unfair practices, deduct the 121 votes polled by A party from their
final count. For the fear of losing these votes, no party would indulge in
unfair practice.

- At the end of every round, the votes polled by all the candidates of that
constituency should be displayed in an electronic board kept outside the
counting center. This step will stop the corrupt officials from meddling with
the numbers later. Also the general public and media will get instant trends.

- In the long run, biometric system should be used which will make bogus voting
impossible and indelible ink obsolete.

[biometric]
previous post >>> Younger Men marrying Older Women
Posted by Hamilton Alexander at 7:42 PM No comments: ●
Labels: am not ok, EVMs, foolproof voting system, Indian elections,
manipulation of electronic voting machines, where are we headed?

Tuesday, March 10, 2009

Younger Men marrying Older Women

The Guardian recently reported that, children born to 20-year-old men scored on
average three points higher in IQ tests than children whose fathers were 50
years-old when they were born. The same study also found that children's IQ was
marginally higher if they were born to older mothers.

[Younger]So how is this 3 points and older mother advantage going to impact the
marriage equation? May be, we can look forward to more younger men getting
married to older women in future. LOL!

Previous post >>> Culture Degradation
Posted by Hamilton Alexander at 2:34 PM 1 comment: ●
Labels: age factor in marriage, am not ok, family, marriage, older women
younger men romance, society, where are we headed?
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
●

About Me

My Photo

Hamilton Alexander
    a simple wandering soul...

View my complete profile
●

who CREATED god?

●
●

Given a chance, i'll effect the following change:

“Fulfillment of INDIVIDUAL desires (one at a time) without affecting another
individual. The process will be a world (without a savings account), where
individual desires are fulfilled on continuous basis. If Tom or Dick or Harry,
need a palatial bungalow, they will get it immediately. If they need a cruise
liner, they will get that the next moment. But the bungalow will vanish
immediately. Thus the need is fulfilled immediately without giving room for
greed/saving. After enjoying everything on earth; Tom, Dick & Harry may reach
the self-actualization stage one day and opt for death…"
- ATHEIST
●

  • Need for God/Religion ?

●

Ads by Google

●

Blog Archive

  • ▼  2013 (1)
      □ ▼  December (1)
          ☆ Murder, Bigamy, Adultery, Incest, Theft, Dacoity, ...

  • ►  2009 (6)
      □ ►  August (1)
      □ ►  June (1)
      □ ►  May (1)
      □ ►  March (1)
      □ ►  January (2)

  • ►  2008 (17)
      □ ►  December (2)
      □ ►  October (1)
      □ ►  September (3)
      □ ►  August (2)
      □ ►  July (1)
      □ ►  June (1)
      □ ►  May (2)
      □ ►  April (1)
      □ ►  March (1)
      □ ►  February (2)
      □ ►  January (1)

  • ►  2007 (41)
      □ ►  December (2)
      □ ►  November (1)
      □ ►  September (7)
      □ ►  August (5)
      □ ►  July (5)
      □ ►  June (2)
      □ ►  May (3)
      □ ►  April (7)
      □ ►  March (9)

  • ►  2005 (11)
      □ ►  December (2)
      □ ►  November (4)
      □ ►  October (5)

●

ClustrMaps

[am-not-ok]
●
                                       
                                 free counter
                                 online casino
●

Google Search

Google Enter your search terms [                               ] Submit search
form [Search] 

●

Links

  • எல்லாம் மாயை !!!
  • click here to feed the hungry
  • webbloodbank.org

●

Digg

●

Blogcatalog

Writing Blogs - BlogCatalog Blog Directory
●

Technorati

View blog top tags
●

GA

●
