Beyond the Flock

[ an extremely occasional weblog ]
Skip to content

  • Home
  • About Beyond the Flock

[cropped-sheep_eating_grass_edit021]
← Older posts

Big Tobacco’s Secret War – and Why You Should Care

Posted on July 1, 2015 | Leave a comment

vapez

Human airways are built for just that: Air. The healthiest option for anyone
that smokes or vapes is always to quit. Until such time as we can re-design
human air passageways, we simply cannot make a safe cigarette.

What we can do, however, is make cigarettes less bad – and I’d like to suggest
that their electronic counterparts are an important step in that direction.
Continue reading →

Leave a comment

Posted in Tech

Tagged big tobacco, cigarettes, e-cigs, electronic cigarettes, health, laws,
nicotine, regulation, vape, vaping

Why Philosophy Doesn’t Actually Suck

Posted on June 24, 2015 | 1 comment

Back in 2011, I wrote a post about why philosophy sucks.

It is now 2015, and I am pleased to announce that I have long since completed
my B.A. in philosophy. With that in mind, I’d like to offer a counterargument.
Continue reading →

1 Comment

Posted in Philosophical stuff

Tagged philosophy, philosophy degree, philosophy major, sucks

How Much Does Facebook REALLY Know About You?

Posted on June 23, 2015 | Leave a comment

It’s no secret that Facebook knows a lot about us and, by design, seeks to turn
a profit off of our personal data – but do you know how much of your data
you’re giving away? If you use the Facebook app on a mobile phone, your privacy
may be in serious danger. Continue reading →

Leave a comment

Posted in Tech

Tagged android, facebook, messenger, permissions, privacy, sms

In Defense of Gun Control

Posted on January 18, 2013 | Leave a comment

Image

It’s 2013, and if you own a gun, you probably feel a little bit defensive – not
just of yourself, but also of your commitment to legal gun ownership. And
that’s perfectly understandable.

It’s not my intention to attack anyone and everyone who legally owns a firearm,
and I apologize if this come across that way. However, I do think that it’s
high time we realized that both our guns and our society have changed a great
deal since “the right to bear arms” was agreed upon. Continue reading →

Leave a comment

Posted in Politics, Relevant rants

Tagged gun control, guns, Politics, sandy hook

Why philosophy sucks (by a philosophy major)

Posted on January 8, 2011 | 17 comments

I am a philosophy major. Philosophy sucks. Here’s why. Continue reading →

17 Comments

Posted in Philosophical stuff

← Older posts

  • Archives

      □ July 2015 (1)
      □ June 2015 (2)
      □ January 2013 (1)
      □ January 2011 (1)
      □ July 2010 (1)
      □ January 2010 (1)
      □ May 2009 (1)
      □ April 2009 (1)
      □ March 2009 (2)
      □ January 2009 (1)
      □ September 2008 (2)
      □ June 2008 (2)
  • Blog Stats

      □ 12,139 hits
  • Follow via Email

    Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of
    new posts by email.

    [                    ]

    [Sign Me Up]

  • Follow Beyond the Flock on WordPress.com

  • WARNING: Amazon Affiliate Marketing Area

    Have you ever wanted to buy forty packages of peanut butter crackers to
    munch on while you view my blog? Thanks to our friends at Amazon, you can!
    These peanut butter crackers are delicious, easy to carry, and make a great
    snack when you're on the road. Plus, it's actually cheaper (at least for
    me) to get them delivered to my house than it is to buy them at my local
    store. Buy some peanut butter crackers on Amazon today  *
  • Disclaimer

    Beyond the Flock is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates
    Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for
    sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon. com

Blog at WordPress.com. The Coraline Theme.
Follow

Follow “Beyond the Flock”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
