^             ^s     [ A la [ Freedom      [          [     [ How to   [      [     [ Have
a             [ Top  Carte    ] ^i    Freethought Refresh!  Navigate Locate Newest    your
  Atheism, a` Navbar  ] ^i               ] ^i       ] ^i      ] ^i     on   Stuff      own
  la Carte[   Text ]                                                  Site    on     Break
  (C)]                                                               Map ]  Page ]  Frames
  Unconvinced                                                          ^i     ^i    button
  of                                                                               ] [ Get
  Existence                                                                        Free of
  of any gods                                                                      Frames!
                                                                                      ] ^i
                     [Home] [Freedom]  [Thought]  [Atheism]   [?]    [Map]  [New]   [Lose
                                                                                    'Em] 

Atheiststheists, by whatever name they are known, comprise some 15-20 percent
of the population in almost every region of the world. Logo of *Atheism, à la
Carte* --- moreIn particularly oppressive areas this may include some who
pretend to believe in the local gods in order to avoid persecution. On a
worldwide basis, they are more prevalent than even Sunni, which is apparently
the religion with most adherents.

This web page presents essays about what it means to be an atheist in a
religious world. It explores societal stereotypes and prejudices that are
directed against atheists as distinct from prejudices against those who
'believe' in gods, but differently.
                                 On This Page:
┌────────────────────────┬─────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────┐
│ Atheists &             │ Atheism Fuels 'Inner    │                          │
│ Homeschooling          │ Pig'?                   │ The Meaning of Life      │
│ Map of World Religions │ Atheist Children        │ Atheists in Foxholes     │
│ AntiChrist Accusations │ Especially Targeted     │ 'By Their Fruits' =      │
│ & more                 │ The 'Training Up' of    │ 'Murder This One'        │
│ No Fair Shake for      │ Children                │ Snitch Society Danger to │
│ Atheist Suspects       │ Rogerian Therapy        │ Atheists                 │
│ Reject Negative        │ Atheism Equals          │ Railing Against a God    │
│ Stereotyping           │ Communism?              │ Unbelievers to be        │
│ Christian is as        │ Incidence of Atheism    │ Destroyed                │
│ Christian Does         │ Atheism: The Last Taboo │ Taming Split Hairs       │
│ 'Becoming' an Atheist  │ Are Atheists            │ Who's Counting?          │
│ Atheist SAHMs          │ Closed-Minded?          │                          │
└────────────────────────┴─────────────────────────┴──────────────────────────┘


   See also:                      [                  ][Search]
 War on Terror      Powered by the Google Search Engine^i.(*)lacarte ( )WWW



●

            .          Atheists Unfriendly to Homeschooling Permalink: URL of
 Freethought, a` la    this post will appear in your browser's location box
        Carte
 1st Amendment         This Comment First Appeared in a private forum:
 Religion
 Ethics                I often wonder why it is that atheists, who have managed
 Religion at School    to wrest their minds fairly free from religion, are so
 Evolution             often not among those who seek to be free of authority
 O'Hair                in other realms, such as health, parenting, learning and
 Pledge                privacy. Why is it that we can so easily see the
 Bible                 importance of being free from government in matters of
                       faith, and yet are willing to be told what to think and
                       do in other areas of our lives? What will it take for us
                       to understand how important it is to have these other
                       freedoms? Will it take having the tables turned on us,
                       so that one or two new wrong minded Supreme Court
                       justices manage to reshape public schools in ways we
                       don't like?

                       It is not at all true that raising kids on a factory
                       model is efficient. Affording children a fine
                       opportunity to discover for themselves how the world
                       around them works is far less complicated than one might
                       think. Compare the maze bright lab mouse to the field
                       mouse. Which has a larger brain mass and more dendrites?
                       The field mouse, by far. Similarly, those children whose
                       parents can find a way to let them fully explore the
                       world, in all its wonder, are lucky indeed... far
                       luckier than the ones who are figuratively chained to
                       their desks all day for twelve years. --- '00-Oct-12thGo
                       to top of this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  In Memory of the     
  Vicitims and the     Map of World Religions Permalink: URL of this post will
Heroes. September 11,  appear in your browser's location box
    2001 --- more
                       This Comment First Appeared at: http://pub5.ezboard.com/
                       fyourdontimebomb2000.showMessage?topicID=13775.topic#
                       dancr

                       Wow! Thanks! I love maps! In fact my map making business
                       was where my a` la Carte was born. I often fantasize
                       about designing 'the perfect map'.

                       I had no clue Sunni was so large. I'd like to see one
                       with stripes, showing each country with, say, its top
                       five religions with stripes sized in accordance with
                       their proportion of population. Even better would be
                       including a stripe for atheist. They may be some 20%
                       everywhere, making them even more prevalent worldwide
                       than Sunni (was that the largest region?).

                       Somehow, I have to think that places like San Francisco,
                       Los Angeles, or even New York do not have a majority of
                       population that is Jewish. If they're getting down to
                       neighborhoods, then why no Chinatown in San Francisco
  American Atheists    and New York?
Logo depicts an A in
 the center of some    I am reminded of this neat long timeline poster I had
electron orbits. ---   hanging in my house for several years, which showed in
        n/m/d          each time period the relative amount of power of the
                       different peoples. I couldn't tell how they had measured
                       it. It wasn't by population, since they showed the
                       United States as currently more powerful than China. It
                       really does put things into perspective to trace China's
                       color back over 6,000 years and to realize that
                       civilizations come and go, but China endures.

                       I often thought that it would be interesting to see that
                       graphic on a global histogram, with the higher
                       populations seeming to bulge out that area of earth,
                       only, instead of representing time as a dimension on the
                       graphic, use time to animate the globe.

                       For those interested in more on maps, you might want to
                       check out this book from John Noble Wilford,Off SiteThe
                       Mapmakers: The Story of the Great Pioneers in
                       Cartography from Antiquity to the Space Age. ---
                       '00-Oct-21stGo to top of this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
 Bumper sticker says   
*evildoer* --- n/m/d   True Character Behind That Apology! Permalink: URL of
                       this post will appear in your browser's location box

                       This Essay First Appeared at:  http://pub5.ezboard.com/
                       fyourdonfrm84.showMessage?topicID=480.topic#dancr4

                       It is customary for people to accept apologies when
                       offered, and to comment briefly upon the character of
                       the person who has issued it, complimenting them upon
                       their manliness and so forth.

                       I stand by the "Are You AntiChrist" wording which I used
                       in the title to the post above, in which I originally
                       complained about seeming to have been called the
                       AntiChrist. Off SitePatrick, the word 'an' did not
                       appear there, as you claim, in quotes, even. However, I
                       will accept your apology, such as it is, clothed in an
                       inaccurate denial, and immediately followed by even more
                       inaccurate sideswipes. (A genuine apology usually
                       signals an intent to refrain from similar offenses.)
Click Here if You're
 Looking for My Web    What does it mean, in practical terms, for me to accept
  Ring *Machines.*     the apology? It means that I will not document, refer or
 Image depicts word    link to the offense itself, outside this essay. It
  WebRing inside a     should be fairly easy for me to abide by this
    small ring. i      commitment, considering that the evidence has been wiped
                       out. However, I do intend, someday, to write an essay or
                       comment about the word 'chistophobe,' that you may like
                       to think you have coined, and which I've long considered
                       to be an oddly ironic word for god fearing people to
                       hurl at unbelievers.

                       Regarding your follow-up post... this kind of post
                       should also be beneath you.  Though I have to hand it to
                       you about how you tied my hands with an apology, and
                       then launched into this inaccurate mockery in a manner
                       in which you can maintain plausible deniability about
                       whether or not it was directed at me. You can thereby
                       paint me colors that I am not, while making me seem
                       petty if I object.

                       Since I'm the only person around that it could have been
                       directed at, I will respond, even though I can hear
                       Austin Powers (or somebody) saying, "If the shoe fits,
                       baby..."
Click Here if You're
  Looking for my IA    I have never said "Our founders were never Christian."
Ring *Machine.* Image  ...emphasis mine. That would be ridiculous. Some of them
 says: International   were. Your suggestion that history teachers and the
  Atheists Ring of     Internet writers of history pages engage in historical
       Truth!          revisionism is exactly correct, though not in the way
                       you mean. Textbook writers and Internet writers are
                       heavily influenced by christian market forces and
                       personal conviction. A dispassionate consideration of
                       the actual evidence, by scholarly historians yields a
                       much richer tapestry. See Howard Zinn and James W.
                       Loewen.

                       Even if all of the founders were christian, though
                       (which they were not), it would not change the fact that
                       they intended for the new government to not dictate to
                       anybody what they must believe in matters of faith or
                       politics. This is the clear meaning of the language of
                       the First Amendment.

                       I also have never used the phrase "ranting crazy
                       Christian," or anything like that, in this thread or any
                       other, or at any time. Though, I will admit my belief
                       that you have done a few good imitations of one in this
                       and other threads, some of which you have since deleted.
                       I'll leave it for others to conclude what was your true
                       character and what was just an act.
  tiled, muted site
   logo --- more i     You and others have several times implied or outright
                       stated that I have spoken in favor of gun control. I,
                       emphatically, have not. This is an unfair smear,
                       ...plain and simple.

                       I have never counseled anyone to not read what the
                       Founders said. In fact I strongly encourage every U.S.
                       citizen to read their actual words, and not just
                       compilations of Off Sitebogus and usually quite
                       irrelevant Off Siterevisionist quotes. I particularly
                       recommend for folks to look at the full text of the
                       deliberations of the constitutional convention.

                       I think you have me confused with someone else. One
                       doesn't have to be a "leftist" to believe that the
                       Founders of the United States intended for the new
                       government to not dictate to anyone in matters of faith.
                       Republicans and Democrats alike, throughout history,
                       have pandered to the christian vote.

                       I wasn't expecting an apology. It takes a big man to
                       admit when they have done somebody wrong.

                       [Edited '01-01-08 to add:] I reject the sorry
                       explanation that the 'anti' in antiChrist means
                       'instead.' The lengthy Off Sitedictionary definition of
                       anti provides no such meaning.

                       I greatly doubt that any ancient "Paul" ever discussed
                       the word at all, and in addition, I doubt that you will
                       find any Bible that suggests otherwise. But what if he
                       did? Imagine a man, speaking at the time of the birth of
                       the church, a time at which the vast majority of people
                       in his region, not to mention worldwide were of other
                       religions. How could such a man, informing about the
                       supposedly previously unknown existence of such
                       creatures as antichrists "among us" possibly be
                       referring to the tame idea that there existed people who
                       were merely not christian?

                       If that's what it meant to you, then why would you even
                       bother asking me if I were "an" antiChrist? No. I
                       believe that you used the word in the sense that it is
                       usually used... to intimidate. It's the word used to
                       label the notoriously evil people that have inspired
                       wars or otherwise committed heinous crimes against
                       humanity. It's the word that is used to justify when
                       average everyday people are tortured, burned or gassed
                       for the crime of being 'other.' --- '01-Jan-1stGo to top
                       of this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       No Fair Shake for Atheist Criminal Suspects Permalink:
                       URL of this post will appear in your browser's location
                       box

                       This Essay First Appeared at: http://
                       boards2.parentsplace.com/messages/get/ppatheist27/50/
                       13.html and at
                       http://pub5.ezboard.com/fyourdonfrm84.showMessage?
                       topicID=339.topic#dancr14

                       There are few atheists in prison, as compared to their
                       representation in the population at large. Even so, I
                       believe that those who are there are more likely to have
                       been victims of a biased trial or crooked law
                       enforcement efforts. When atheists actually do commit a
                       crime, they are probably more likely to be caught. Like
                       redheads, their presence tends to be noticed by those
                       who are aware of their views. Unfortunately, if they are
                       anywhere near the scene of a crime they can also tend to
                       be caught up in any dragnet or be falsely accused by any
                       bystanders.

                       Religious symbols abound in many police departments.
                       Some police cruisers have a city emblem on their patrol
                       car doors featuring a cross. Some police uniforms have a
                       cross on their shoulder patch, and if not, their
                       departments may allow officers to wear a crucifix
                       outside their shirt, which can sometimes be a big
                       honking medallion. In some police departments it is
                       politically wise to attend prayer breakfasts,
                       particularly if the captain favors them.

                       Here's one amazing discussion in which right-wing
                       christians defend the actions of a sheriff rounding up
                       his county's registered gun owners for the purpose of
                       preventing his god from being mocked: Off SiteA
                       Sheriff's Letter To Concealed Weapons Permit Holders.

                       Police stations and court rooms alike sport holiday
                       decorations, pictures of Jesus and Moses, stone carvings
                       on the building about god, and plaques of The Ten
                       Commandments in strategic locations. In some states they
                       also post the Twelve Steps of so-called twelve step
                       programs, in which the first step is to "admit" that one
                       is powerless to effect change in their life without
                       accepting a "higher power." If jurors weren't already
                       inclined to do so anyway, such symbols may tend to
                       encourage them to believe that the state would
                       appreciate it if they would stick it to the atheist.

                       As if that weren't enough... jurors can be automatically
                       dismissed for refusing to utter a god-oath. In states
                       where this is not allowed, the fact that a prospective
                       juror has "made a scene" by insisting upon swearing in
                       by a legally proscribed alternative oath marks such
                       jurors as dangerous to either the prosecution or the
                       defense. Thus, atheist defendants will almost always be
                       denied a jury containing even one person who is not
                       biased against their opinions regarding religion.

                       Similarly, plaintiffs, defendants and witnesses also are
                       required to either ceremoniously place their hand upon a
                       large bible and swear a god-oath or make a scene and
                       insist upon the secular alternative oath, thus signaling
                       to biased jurors whether or not their testimony is to be
                       believed. Prosecuting attorneys are routinely allowed to
                       question defendants about their religion, whether or not
                       it has any bearing on the case, because "it goes to
                       character, your honor."

                       Atheists generally have fewer church members serving as
                       character witnesses for them. Atheists are extremely
                       unlikely to stage a phony repentance display for a crime
                       that they have not committed. Atheists are probably less
                       likely to have prison chaplains champion their cause,
                       less likely to have activists financing their appeals,
                       and less likely to be pardoned or offered clemency by
                       any governor.

                       Given all of these stumbling blocks, it's amazing that
                       the prisons aren't overflowing with atheists. The fact
                       is, though, they are under-represented in prison
                       populations. As DNA evidence is now showing, many of
                       those doing time are not guilty. I believe that a
                       significant proportion of any atheists who are now
                       sitting on death row are probably innocent of the crimes
                       of which they've been found guilty

                       Studies have consistently shown atheist under
                       representation in prisons an order of magnitude or two
                       lower than would be expected based upon their prevalence
                       in the general population. Off SiteThe first example my
                       web-browser brought me to found that while atheists
                       tended to be as high as 16% in the general population
                       (they must be including some agnostics, freethinkers,
                       humanists, and some others), in prisons they are under
                       0.2 of one percent. That's almost two orders of
                       magnitude lower! This, based upon a survey of prison
                       populations of several tens of thousands of prisoners.
                       By contrast, the catholic population in prison is nearly
                       50%, all out of proportion to their incidence in the
                       general population.  (This article makes some mistakes
                       at the end in how it estimates the number of Catholics
                       in the general population but we can assume that it is
                       well under 25%.)

                       Granted, there may be some extreme incentive to disavow
                       atheism in prison, but this would help to make my main
                       point above, about the extreme injustice dealt to
                       atheists in prison.

                       But, perhaps when you ask "why do [I] think that" you
                       mean why is it that there should be so few atheists in
                       prison. I believe, besides the fact that they're more
                       highly educated, they also tend to live lives that can
                       be rationally justified.  People who are in the habit of
                       using their religion to justify whatever they might
                       choose to do wouldn't have as many opportunities to
                       practice attenuating their behavior, and can thus fly
                       off the handle more easily. --- '01-Jan-3rdGo to top of
                       this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       Reject Negative Stereotyping Permalink: URL of this post
                       will appear in your browser's location box

                       This Comment First Appeared at:  http://pub5.ezboard.com
                       /fyourdonfrm67.showMessage?topicID=552.topic#dancr

                       One need no longer waste energy on untangling biblical
                       inconsistencies and filth that rivals the worst X- and
                       R-rated films, after they realize that the bulk of
                       scripture is mere fairy tales. Those who can thus avoid
                       being mired down in nonsense can focus instead upon
                       deflecting the negative energy which is directed at them
                       by so-called 'true believers.' It is not a given, for
                       instance, that unbelievers are, in any degree, worse or
                       more selfish, as suggested in the passage quoted here.
                       --- '01-Feb-16thGo to top of this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       Christian is as Christian Does Permalink: URL of this
                       post will appear in your browser's location box

                       This Essay First Appeared at: http://pub5.ezboard.com/
                       fyourdonfrm67.showMessage?topicID=552.topic#dancr3

                       Off SiteDan Reilly complains that: atheists profess to
                       know what it is to be Christian.

                       It may very well be true that I do not, as you say,
                       "know what it is to be Christian."; I do not pretend to
                       understand how one reconciles the Off Siteinternal
                       inconsistency of Christian scripture, or how one can
                       claim any degree of self respect while worshiping the
                       supposed author of such a Off Sitebarbaric text (backup
                       copy). But, I reject the idea that those who do not
                       profess to be Christian should not even speak of it in
                       public.

                       Only an outsider can tell how things look and feel on
                       the outside. Fortunately, Christians do not usually
                       behave much differently from others and seem,
                       superficially at least, to be guided by a more
                       enlightened humanistic ethic, promoting harmony with
                       those who are different. But now and then, if they get
                       drunk on liquor, or worse, power drunk, all hell beaks
                       loose. One Christian 'moment' lasted for one thousand
                       years, and is now commonly known as the dark ages.

                       One of my visions of calamity is of a collapse of the
                       social fabric which holds Off Sitebaser religious
                       impulses in check. The rise to power of people such as
                       Off SiteJohn Ashcroft [broken link] and Clarence Thomas,
                       who have an inadequate appreciation for the importance
                       of the first amendment, feeds my foreboding sense of
                       doom.

                       I am determined to shine a flashlight into dark corners
                       and onto anyone who utters a thinly veiled threat to
                       attack people for the mere offense of disbelieving a pet
                       delusion. To not speak up, when it is safe to do so
                       (i.e. anonymously, online), can sometimes be taken as
                       condoning someone's behavior or opinion, and possibly
                       even contributing to any coming sea change. As for my
                       earlier admonishment of Off SitePsylenced for saying
                       that I was "looking to be attacked" ( I said "How
                       Christian of you."), my apologies to the movie character
                       Forrest Gump, but Christian is as Christian does. ---
                       '01-Feb-18thGo to top of this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       'Becoming' an Atheist Permalink: URL of this post will
                       appear in your browser's location box

                       This essay was shared privately with someone who asked
                       me to relate how I "became" an atheist.

                       My mother was raised Methodist. My father was an alter
                       boy in the largest Episcopalian church in the same large
                       town in Kansas, of which his mother was excessively
                       proud. When I was two years old we moved over 1000 miles
                       away and started going to a Methodist church in a small
                       mid-western town. I attended Sunday school, and my folks
                       taught (baby-sat) in the classes of my two younger
                       brothers.

                       I didn't mind going to church at all because I enjoyed
                       getting compliments on how pretty I was in my dress and
                       winning all of the prizes for memorizing the most
                       verses. I specifically remember asking my mother to
                       explain the Lord's Prayer, line by line, because it was
                       completely over my head. We enjoyed listening to a
                       particular radio show in the car on the way home. I
                       don't remember any of the programs, but at the end of
                       the show we always said her signoff line together, in
                       unison: "Aunt Bertha, Box 1, Grand Rapids, Michigan." I
                       was SO impressed that she got Box 1!

                       During these years my take on religion was that it was
                       something that I just didn't 'get,' but that I would
                       understand when I grew up. At Sunday school I won all
                       kinds of posters and knickknacks for my room, but I
                       didn't want them, so I always just gave them to the
                       runner up. However, I did prize the Bible that I won
                       when I turned eleven, and I read it cover-to-cover a few
                       years later. It all seemed pretty ridiculous, but still,
                       I treasured that bible for years until somebody,
                       ironically I thought, stole it from me. As far as I can
                       remember it's the only thing anybody's ever stolen from
                       me. If they read it, then maybe they're an atheist, too,
                       now.

                       Shortly after I turned ten my sister was born a
                       Mongoloid, as we called it in those days. I think they
                       didn't tell me right away, but only a few days later.
                       That night, alone in my room, I got the closest I ever
                       did to saying a true prayer. By that, I mean not just
                       kneeling beside the bed, folding my hands, and droning
                       "Now I lay me down to sleep, etc. etc."  I said to
                       myself, "God, if you're real, I know you can fix my
                       sister. If you do it, I'll believe." My sister stayed
                       retarded, and I never did come across any convincing
                       evidence that there are any gods. I didn't exactly
                       'become' an atheist, but only eventually recognized that
                       I was one. --- '01-Apr-12thGo to top of this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       Stay-at-Home Moms Permalink: URL of this post will
                       appear in your browser's location box

                       This Comment First Appeared in a Private Forum

                       ...we hardly spend any time at home at all. We travel
                       quite a bit. For example, out of the last eight weeks we
                       were out of state for half that time on four separate
                       trips. Wherever we are I swim a mile on most days, and
                       we're out running around on a variety of errands and
                       projects most of every day.

                       As an atheist, I was always a distinct minority at La
                       Leche League and then at Mommie & Me. A lot of people
                       now incorrectly assume that because we're homeschoolers
                       we must also be Christians, and so we get a lot of nice
                       invitations to participate in church activities, and
                       not-so-nice presumptuous comments from other folks who'd
                       probably sooner not talk to an atheist.

                       My favorite online hangout during the past three years
                       is chock full of Christian apocalyptic doomers who are
                       about 50/50 split between SAHMs and husbands of SAHMs.
                       I've been open since day one about my atheism, there,
                       and I'm fairly proud of how I've managed to fit in,
                       while still expressing my honest opinions. I have no
                       doubt, though, but that I could easily step on a land
                       mine at any given moment.

                       ::: veering wildly off topic, now ::: One of the
                       companies that my husband worked at in recent years was
                       headed up by people who had no compunction about
                       pressuring the employees to attend the owners' favorite
                       church. It was truly disgusting to watch how many
                       complied. Knowing how important it was to his career, my
                       husband probably would have gone to the church, if I had
                       been willing. It was a great relief for me when he moved
                       on to another spot. --- '01-Apr-14thGo to top of this
                       post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       Atheism Responsible for the 'Inner Pig'? Permalink: URL
                       of this post will appear in your browser's location box

                       This Comment First Appeared at: http://pub65.ezboard.com
                       /ftimebomb200017873frm1.showMessage?topicID=118.topic#
                       dancr

                       Phil Brennan says: ... [today's prevalence of various
                       examples of rage... road rage, air rage, school rage] is
                       above all a symptom of a deadly malaise inflicting far
                       too many Americans - the sickness of despair born of
                       nihilism - the Bumper Sticker says *Godless Bless
                       America*inability to recognize our natures as children
                       of a loving God, and to act upon that knowledge

                       Just to keep things a bit in perspective, it may
                       interest readers of this article to know that atheists
                       are not found in abundance in prisons except in regions
                       of the world where merely being an atheist can land one
                       in jail. --- '01-April-30thGo to top of this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       Atheist Children Especially Targeted Permalink: URL of
                       this post will appear in your browser's location box

                       This Comment First Appeared in Private Forum

                       Whether their parents are atheist or not, most children
                       receive massive indoctrination from an early age in the
                       dominant religion of their culture. This can come from
                       television, literature, school (even public school),
                       neighbors, and other kids. It is upon this foundation
                       that all subsequent learning is built. Thus, it can be a
                       monumental task for adults to question beliefs and
                       attitudes adopted in early childhood, since it can
                       require an overhauling of one's entire world view. Most
                       people would prefer even war over that prospect.

                       Although there are plenty of religious wars, with at
                       least one raging on any given day, most people recognize
                       that it is exceedingly rare for an adult to adopt a
                       religion other than one in which they have received at
                       least some early indoctrination. So, the religious
                       practice a kind of truce among themselves, in which they
                       pretend to 'respect' the beliefs of others. Usually,
                       though, this 'respect' does not extend to those who do
                       not believe in any gods at all. Atheists are perceived
                       as fair game by all in the battle for market share of
                       hearts and minds.

                       Competition presses those whose livelihood is religion
                       to increase their flocks. Historically, the most
                       successful way to do this is to encourage breeding among
                       adherents and the proselytizing of the resulting
                       children as well as the children of one's neighbors, at
                       every opportunity.

                       So, although religious wars still produce a great death
                       toll, the prime religious battlefront is the minds of
                       the children of atheist neighbors, who are often seen by
                       the religious as in even more need of religious
                       instruction than are one's own children, who can after
                       all be proselytized at leisure. Thus there is sometimes
                       a great urgency behind the felt need to 'witness' to
                       atheist children every time an opportunity presents
                       itself (i.e. whenever their parents' backs are turned).
                       Many religious people have absolutely no compunction
                       against doing this to the children of neighbors and
                       strangers, and especially to their own extended family.
                       --- '01-May-26thGo to top of this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       The 'Training Up' of Children Permalink: URL of this
                       post will appear in your browser's location box

                       This Essay First Appeared in a Private Forum.

                       Although I agree with the others posting above that your
                       questions are out of place, being asked as they are, on
                       this support board, I will comment because your issues
                       are of recent interest to me. I have already put online
                       my own personal answer to the question of how I 'became'
                       atheist.

                       You may not be aware that those who do not believe in
                       the literal truth of the christian bible (whichever
                       version) are heavily concentrated among those who have
                       actually read it, as opposed to just pretending to have
                       read it. This why some religious leaders have forbidden
                       it to be read, forbidden it to be translated into the
                       language understood by the masses or have resisted
                       having its language updated into current idiom.

                       You may often hear an atheist imploring, "Please, read
                       your Bible!"  The same is true for atheists in other
                       cultures regarding their local scripture. Many atheists,
                       if not most of them, have also made it somewhat of a
                       hobby to study the scripture of cultures other than
                       their own, since we are the focus of religious pressure
                       from all sides.

                       Your respect for the power of early teachings in the
                       development of a world view drills right to the marrow.
                       You ve undoubtedly encountered the biblical admonition
                       to "train a child up in the way that he should go." Like
                       anybody else, children are happy to swallow, whole, the
                       opinions of people that they love and respect. Having
                       limited experience in life, they recognize that they
                       have a lot to learn and are usually quite eager to
                       gratefully accept the teachings of the adults around
                       them when these seem useful to them.

                       As I am, many atheists are careful to not abuse this
                       natural tendency in their children, in hopes of
                       encouraging them to develop a habit of thinking for
                       themselves. We attempt to strike a careful balance
                       between giving children free reign to explore, and
                       giving them the tools they need to protect themselves
                       from people (neighbors and relatives, adults and older
                       children) who see every child as an empty vessel in need
                       of filling. Children of atheists may be especially
                       vulnerable to being proselytized by those who believe
                       that atheists have "no morals."

                       For almost all atheists, even ones whose parents were
                       atheist, the process of shaking free from religion
                       involves some amount of world view overhaul, done with
                       varying amounts of thoroughness. Thus, we may find
                       ourselves struggling for years with reconciling apparent
                       inconsistencies in our thinking. These, many times, will
                       have been pointed out by religious people hoping to
                       score points for the God Team.

                       A most usual situation is to be challenged by some 'true
                       believer' about some issue that we've already worked out
                       to our own satisfaction, but that is not easily reduced
                       to a sound bite, Bumper Sticker says *The Answer is
                       Unbumperstickerable - Rumsfeld*or that is not an
                       explanation that has been committed to memory, like
                       scripture. And, so, we find ourselves subjected to
                       constant pop quizzes and to feelings of inadequacy as we
                       stammer our reasoning. It is quite understandable that
                       anyone would choose a closeted life, or at least that we
                       should wish to claim at least this small corner at
                       Parents Place as a no splash zone; a place to relax.

                       While we may find constant direct challenges by
                       religious people to be merely annoying, we can handle
                       this in a peer relationship. It is an entirely different
                       matter when religious challenges come to us from our
                       employer or from our government. For a child, when any
                       adult presses their religion, the situation is
                       comparable to pressure from an employer or from
                       government. Children are utterly dependent upon adults
                       and subject to their authority at almost all times. This
                       subjugation is worse for children who are explicitly
                       taught, as many are, to always obey and show complete
                       respect for every adult, and to never question their
                       superiority (not even in their private thoughts) ---
                       '01-May-28thGo to top of this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       Rogerian Therapy Permalink: URL of this post will appear
                       in your browser's location box

                       This Comment First Appeared in a Private Forum

                       There's a hilarious comic strip style cartoon that pokes
                       fun at Rogerian Psychotherapy. I can only approximate
                       it, since I last saw it about thirty years ago. It shows
                       a patient telling in very a very long winded way how
                       screwed up and hopeless he is. The doctor drones "You're
                       hopeless." The patient goes on about how he's going to
                       end it all and might jump out the window at any moment,
                       and the doctor says "You want to kill yourself." The
                       patient runs across the room and hurls himself out the
                       window. The doctor walks over to the window, looks down,
                       and says "Splat."

                       Although I was a psych major, undergrad, I can't speak
                       from personal experience about Rogers, since I didn't
                       specialize in clinical psychology, and I've also never
                       undergone psychotherapy myself. One of my professors
                       (for one class) did his doctoral thesis under Rogers and
                       was quite high on the method.

                       I've always had a bit of a soft spot for Rogers because
                       he took some abuse over his atheism. Of course, just
                       being an atheist doesn't mean his therapy works.
                       Apparently, though, it does seem to do pretty well in
                       some applications. It is reportedly quite effective when
                       used for so-called deprogramming of people who have been
                       captured and dragged away from groups that their parents
                       consider to be cults. It is also the basis of Rational
                       Emotive Therapy [RET] that is used in the atheist
                       alternative to Alcoholics Anonymous and other drug
                       treatment programs.

                       From what I can remember about it, it involves spotting
                       inconsistencies in the patient's belief system and
                       rephrasing what they say in a way to bring these
                       inconsistencies into bold relief. What drives people
                       nuts is the mental gymnastics they have to go through
                       when their belief system doesn't hold together. The
                       therapy helps them to focus on the rough edges that are
                       causing uncomfortable friction points. The goal is a
                       belief system with 'integrity' i.e. one that holds
                       together because it is internally consistent. ---
                       '01-Jun-15thGo to top of this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       Atheism Equals Communism? Permalink: URL of this post
                       will appear in your browser's location box

                       This Comment First Appeared at: http://pub16.ezboard.com
                       /ftb2kfulltopicfrm1.showMessage?topicID=1861.topic#dancr

                       Off SiteRALsays: Communism is Atheism. No ifs nads or
                       buts about it.

                       You may have talked to more atheists than I have, but in
                       my 46 years I have encountered numerous atheists from
                       across a wide spectrum of political philosophies,
                       including libertarians, conservatives, liberals,
                       Democrats, Republicans, socialists, anarchists,
                       capitalists, communists, independents and every possible
                       combination in between and more besides.

                       Communists, also, come in a wide variety of religious
                       persuasions, the most popular of which, if we don't
                       count China, currently, and historically, is probably
                       Christianity. --- '01-Jun-28th Go to top of this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       Incidence of Atheism Permalink: URL of this post will
                       appear in your browser's location box

                       This Comment First Appeared in a Private Forum

                       Designing a study to address this question would be VERY
                       challenging. I once worked in the field of survey
                       research methodology, specializing in what we called
                       'social desirability bias.' If this is not the toughest
                       issue to get people to be frank about, then it runs a
                       close second to sex.

                       Based upon a variety of surveys, I think it's quite safe
                       to say that atheists, by whatever name, including
                       freethinkers, humanists, and agnostics number a fairly
                       consistent 15-20% worldwide, though they may vary in
                       their willingness to say so.

                       According to Dan Barker, among the people who say that
                       they have a religion, about one third believe in
                       religions (such as Buddhism) that do not have any gods.
                       There may be some overlap between these first two
                       categories.

                       Then, there's always a mushy category of those who
                       choose 'none,' or 'no preference,' or who refuse to
                       answer. A high percentage of these people are probably
                       atheists.

                       I'm not at all convinced that we are under 50% in the
                       United States or in the World. It just SEEMS like it's
                       under 1%. --- '01-Jul-11thGo to top of this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       Atheism: The Last Taboo Permalink: URL of this post will
                       appear in your browser's location box

                       This Comment First Appeared at: http://pub16.ezboard.com
                       /ftb2kfulltopicfrm1.showMessage?topicID=2266.topic#dancr

                       The Washington Post Off Sitereports that more people
                       would be reluctant to have a family member marry an
                       atheist than to marry into another race.

                       I'd need to see details about how this survey was
                       conducted. Who was in the population being studied? Did
                       it include atheists, agnostics, freethinkers, humanists,
                       and apathetics? Did they ask the same question even if
                       the respondent was one of these? If I were asked the
                       question might I substitute in the word 'fundamentalist'
                       in my own mind (just so the question would make sense)
                       and still answer 'no'?

                       How many people in this survey would have answered that
                       they would not like their sister to marry a
                       fundamentalist?

                       What if your sister were an atheist? Would that make a
                       difference? --- '01-Jul-23rdGo to top of this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       Are Atheists Closed Minded? Permalink: URL of this post
                       will appear in your browser's location box

                       This Comment First Appeared at: http://pub16.ezboard.com
                       /ftb2kfulltopicfrm1.showMessage?topicID=2280.topic#dancr
                       [ text only version ]

                       I 'm going to do my best to respond to your comment.
                       But, I must admit, right off the bat, that I cannot make
                       much sense of most of it. We don't even have a common
                       vocabulary.  So, my explanation may not be at all what
                       you are seeking  unless, as you predicted, you're just
                       looking for something that you can point to and declare
                       to be gibberish. In that case, if you understand what I
                       have to say no more than I understand what you have
                       written, then you will have found that for which you are
                       looking.

                       Despite what you may find in the dictionary, atheism is
                       not as you, and many others, have described it.
                       Dictionary definitions are often fuzzier than they
                       should be because they include a wide variety of
                       meanings, including those cooked up by detractors and
                       confused people. Over a period of thousands of years
                       almost all of those who have managed to get their work
                       published, until recently, had only bad things to say
                       about atheism, and had free reign to define it in any
                       way that helped them to make their case against it.

                       So, you will find in some dictionaries that atheism
                       means devil worship, the practice of evil, or wanton
                       immorality. Some definitions betray their bias by
                       assuming the existence of a god, and then painting the
                       atheist into that world view as one who denies, or as
                       someone refusing to believe or as having a disbelief. If
                       you consult a Falwell glossary, for example, you will
                       find that atheism means "the rejection of the teachings
                       and grace of Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ."

                       The true meaning of the word 'atheist,' as accepted by
                       the vast majority of those who call themselves such (and
                       that's ultimately whose opinion matters, n'est-ce pas?),
                       is a negation of the word 'theist.' A theist is someone
                       who (for whatever reason, or for no reason at all)
                       believes that there is a god or that there are some
                       gods. An atheist is someone who does not. To not believe
                       that there is any god is not the same thing as to
                       believe that there is not. Atheism quite simply does not
                       involve 'belief' in the religious sense of having faith,
                       at all.

                       Thus, the term 'atheism' encompasses a wide variety of
                       groups that call themselves by different names. Some
                       (many) of these disavow being atheists, all the while
                       not quite believing that there are in fact any gods.
                       Sometimes they're just distancing themselves from the
                       'A' word as maliciously defined by those who are
                       unfriendly to the idea. So, we have agnostics,
                       freethinkers, humanists, heathens, infidels, skeptics,
                       and many, many others. In some senses, I am all of these
                       things.

                       Agnostics are commonly thought of (and I like to think
                       of them this way, too) as those who won't commit their
                       mind one way or another on the god question. Many
                       agnostics prefer other definitions, including the one
                       advanced by Huxley, who is thought to have originated
                       the term. Huxley held that it is not possible to know
                       one way or the other about the existence of any gods. In
                       any case, though agnostics are atheists by my definition
                       given above.

                       To complicate matters further  what someone 'believes'
                       is not necessarily the same as what they 'think' is
                       true. Two people might both 'think' that the evidence
                       for the existence of Zeus is kind of poor. One may say,
                       "I don't think that there is any Zeus such as that goofy
                       character that is described in these books of ancient
                       history." Another may say to himself, years earlier, in
                       his native language of ancient Greek, something such as
                       the following. "I've never actually personally seen any
                       good evidence that Zeus comes and visits us from Mount
                       Olympus, and copulates with our women, from time to
                       time, and all that malarkey. But I'm apparently the only
                       person in the entire civilized world who thinks this,
                       and according to the elders the only alternative is to
                       be an utterly depraved monster, killed or banished to
                       make my way in the harsh wilderness, and so I will
                       believe."

                       In the above example about Zeus, although neither person
                       really thought there was such a being, one of them, as
                       we saw, became a theist. The known theist is the one who
                       played a trick on his own mind by demanding of himself
                       that he have what is known as faith, that is, 'believing
                       something despite any and all evidence which could ever
                       be produced to the Bumper Sticker says *Minds are like
                       parachutes --- They only function when open*contrary.' 
                       Now, this is what is known as having a closed mind 
                       snapped tightly shut.

                       To be fair, the ancient guy might have never had that
                       one poignant moment of untruth in which he let his mind
                       dramatically snap. Instead, most likely, he probably
                       lost the use of the door to his mind, bit by bit, as he
                       piled his mind and his life full of nursery rhymes,
                       stories about the gods, songs, oaths, pledges, pageants,
                       anthems, and all the other treasures and garbage of his
                       culture. Eventually, it looked something like Fibber
                       McGee's closet, inside and out, and he no longer knew
                       that the door to his mind even existed. The door was
                       behind a huge pile of rubbish, stuck half open, so that
                       any critters who could make their way through the mess
                       had uncontrolled access to his mind. The Zeus belief was
                       in there taking up a lot of room, Zeus knows where,
                       mating with everything that comes through the door and
                       making quite a mess. The only solution is a dump truck.
                       So, it's not so much a case of intellectual dishonesty,
                       as a case of hopelessly disorganized confusion.

                       For the other guy, Zeus is a chapter in Edith Hamilton's
                       Off SiteGreek Way, taking up just a little room in his
                       closet. For the most part it's not messing with his
                       other books, and it's leaving plenty of space for books
                       about all kinds of other gods, and even some non god
                       books. He may choose to read other Zeus books. He may
                       not. He may slam the door shut when the door-to-door
                       Zeus pushers come to call, only to open it later for
                       Zeus info in another format. This guy probably once said
                       to himself  "I refuse to trick my mind and convince
                       myself to believe something that I don't really think is
                       true." Alternatively, he may have acquired a strong
                       habit of only believing things that he actually thought
                       were true, so that he didn't even have to 'refuse' to
                       believe, but just passed it by automatically.

                       An atheist need not 'prove' to himself that there are no
                       gods in order to be justifiably unconvinced of their
                       existence. We don't even have to seriously investigate
                       the question, if we have other things we'd rather be
                       doing. I don't need to waste any more time thinking
                       about Zeus, Thor, Osiris, Zoroaster, Krishna,
                       Leprechauns, fairies, gnomes, elves, ghosts, holy
                       ghosts, or whatever your personal fave might be. It is
                       not necessary for me to ask, "Why are there no
                       Leprechauns?" and to seriously try to answer that
                       question before I can logically say, "I do not believe
                       that there are any Leprechauns." To be disinterested is
                       not evidence of a closed mind with respect to
                       Leprechauns. If somebody has some convincing evidence
                       I'm willing to consider it, if they can get me to focus
                       while trying to shake off a huge yawn. But I'm not going
                       to click on the Leprechaun thread. You'll have to sneak
                       it into a chemtrail thread or something like that, where
                       I stand some chance of seeing it.

                       That said, in my forty-six years of atheism (thirty-six
                       actively studying theology on an almost daily basis),
                       including memberships in many relevant activist
                       organizations and interest groups, I've met many
                       atheists. I've never yet encountered one who was as
                       poorly informed about the Bible as all but a few of
                       those who believe every word of it, whether they've
                       actually read it or not.

                       Some say it is not necessary to 'know' the Bible, but
                       only to believe. It is not necessary for me to actually
                       try crack cocaine to know View the text of this essay in
                       a format suitable for printing, attachment or pasting
                       into e-mailthat it is not for me. Nor do I need to try
                       it to speak out against it. That way lies madness.

                       Atheists classify themselves as 'strong' atheists and
                       'weak' atheists. Strong atheists are ones who not only
                       say to themselves "I do not believe that there are any
                       gods," but also that "I am convinced there are no gods."
                       Generally, those atheists who are willing to actually
                       call themselves atheists, as opposed to one of the other
                       names that atheists use, tend to be 'strong' atheists.
                       Even strong atheists are not necessarily closed minded,
                       although they may be. It is possible to be convinced
                       about a matter, and yet still be willing to listen to
                       evidence to the contrary.

                       Just because someone is open minded on matters of
                       religion, though, does not Our Longest Essaysmean that
                       they need to be willing to discuss religion with any old
                       moron who might breathlessly ask "Are you saved?" If we
                       were willing to do that, then we would never get to do
                       the other things that we aim to do in our lives. It
                       would get to be quite repetitious dealing again and
                       again with the same tired arguments and insults. 

                            Such encounters are usually quite predictable,
                       though they can sometimes be interesting when talking to
                       someone who has a few notches on their belt. Invariably,
                       though, if one does not eventually give up the sinners'
                       prayer, the parting shot will be that we're Bumper
                       Sticker says *Born OK the first time*closed minded and
                       that we should get back with them when we're willing to
                       be open-minded.

                       The irony never seems to register. They're asking us to
                       believe on faith, despite all evidence to the
                       contrary... to close our minds to the evidence, and then
                       unwillingness to close our minds is close minded. ---
                       '01-Jul-24th [ text only version ]Go to top of this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       What is the Meaning of Life? Permalink: URL of this post
                       will appear in your browser's location box

                       This Comment First Appeared at: http://
                       www.timebomb2000.com/cgi-bin/tb2k/ultimatebb.cgi?ubb=
                       get_topic&f=1&t=003510&p=2#dancr

                       First, what is the meaning of 'the meaning of life'? ---
                       '01-Sep-3rdGo to top of this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       Atheists in Foxholes Permalink: URL of this post will
                       appear in your browser's location box

                       This Comment First Appeared in a Private Forum

                       I think the platitude about atheists not being found in
                       foxholes may easily be accounted for by a reluctance on
                       the part of atheists to come out of the closet to
                       relative strangers who have just been hauled away from
                       the civilizing influence of their homes and whipped up
                       by their government into a religious frenzy, while those
                       strangers are shaking in fear for their lives and
                       carrying a gun. You want to know who's conspicuously
                       absent from foxholes? Chaplins! --- '01-Oct-12thGo to
                       top of this postSee also: Next link goes off-site.I Was
                       an Atheist in a Foxhole
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       'By Their Fruits!' Means 'Murder This One!' Permalink:
                       URL of this post will appear in your browser's location
                       box

                       an Atheism, Bumper Sticker says *And your point is...*a`
                       la Carte Exclusive

                       If you've ever felt strangely threatened by the in-group
                       taunt "By their fruits!" your sixth sense is doing you
                       proud. Here's the whole passage:

                           Beware of false prophets,
                           which come to you in sheep's clothing,
                           but inwardly they are ravening wolves.
                           Ye shall know them by their fruits.
                           Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?
                           Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit;
                           but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit.
                           A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit,
                           neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit.
                           Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit
                           is hewn down, and cast into the fire.
                           Off SiteWherefore by their fruits ye shall know
                           them.--- '02-Apr-16thGo to top of this post

                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       Snitch Society Dangerous to Many Permalink: URL of this
                       post will appear in your browser's location box

                       This Comment First Appeared at: http://
                       www.timebomb2000.com/vb/showthread.php?s=&postid=301872#
                       post301872

                       TECH32 said: I have to wonder if [TIPS] isn't really
                       some ploy to get around the whole 'racial profiling'
                       thing.

                       I think you've got that right. However, I don't think
                       it's only the brown people they might target.

                       I don't know that atheists should be considered as
                       citizens... --- Off SiteGeorge H. W. Bush, '88-Aug-27th

                       ...throwing God out of the public square, out of the
                       schools..., the ACLU, People For the American Way, all
                       of them who have tried to secularize America. I point
                       the finger in their face and say 'you helped this
                       happen'. --- Jerry Falwell, '01-Sep-13th

                       The terror bombing of New York was an act of atheistic
                       horror --- Ben Stein

                       This enemy tries to hide behind a peaceful faith. But
                       those who celebrate the murder of innocent men, women,
                       and children have no religion, have no conscience, and
                       have no mercy. --- George W. Bush, Off SiteAddress to
                       the Nation at World Congress Center in Atlanta, Georgia

                       You're with us or you're with the terrorists.  ---
                       George W. Bush, '01-Sep-23rd

                       No, these criminals [the terrorists] have no religion 
                       --- Colin Powell, '01-Nov-19th

                       [Terrorism] represents no faith, no religion. It is
                       evil, it is murderous --- Colin Powell, '01-Nov-26th

                       The bulk of international terrorism is due not to
                       Islamic theocratic zeal and religious intolerance, but
                       rather well known atheists who live un-muslim lives...
                       --- Wm. F. Buckley, '01-Dec-14th

                       You need only reflect that one of the best ways to get
                       yourself a reputation as a dangerous citizen these days
                       is to go about repeating the very phrases which our
                       founding fathers used in the struggle for independence. 
                       --- Charles A. Beard --- '02-Jul-21stGo to top of this
                       post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       Railing Against a God Permalink: URL of this post will
                       appear in your browser's location box

                       This Comment First Appeared at: http://
                       www.timebomb2000.com/vb/showthread.php?s=&threadid=40865
                       &perpage=20&pagenumber=1

                       It is clear to me that the Fox News article, Off Site
                       Atheist Takes New Swing at God in Government, is not as
                       impartial as we might wish for our news sources to be.
                       The 'takes a swing' wording of the title paints Michael
                       Newdow as an aggressive person right off the bat,
                       so-to-speak, an angry person who would dare to shake his
                       fist in the face of God himself. Granted, headlines must
                       necessarily be 'punchy.'  But Dr.Newdow could, as would
                       most advocates for state-church separation, patiently
                       explain that the behavior being reported upon is not so
                       much an attack on any god. It is, instead, a patriotic
                       legal action, designed to help realize the greatest
                       promise of the Constitution of this fine country. 

                       Similarly, the lead sentence of the story says Newdow is
                       now  going after  taxpayer-funded chaplains. Technically
                       he s questioning the taxpayer funding of chaplains.
                       There s a difference. People don t like to hear about
                       anybody 'going after' the nice preachers. They might,
                       however, be willing to think twice about funding them
                       out of their own pocket.

                       If the paper wanted to show Dr. Newdow in a good light
                       they probably would have respectfully photographed him
                       in the professional clothing of either of his
                       professions, doctors  scrubs, or the three-piece suit in
                       which he probably made his arguments before the circuit
                       court. Instead, they show him in a T-shirt, or perhaps
                       it s even an undershirt! Somehow, that makes him seem to
                       be something less than what he is. 

                       This is actually a fairly decent looking man who just
                       happens to be talking at the moment that Fox News
                       selects to feature him. But what do we have? Miss
                       Maiden-most-Compassionate, who is apparently too
                       humiliated to step out from behind her own protective
                       bushes, still dares to call for us, in line number one
                       of her thread originating post, to look at this man, and
                       then says nothing more, but inserts the emoticon for
                       gagging or vomiting. Our own studly Satanta seems to
                       also be criticizing Mr. Newdow on looks. Is this really
                       necessary? Aren t we above this, really?

                       I just had a flash of understanding about something that
                       has befuddled me for three-plus decades, and which has
                       not been discussed anywhere, that I know. Despite any
                       'love the sinner' philosophy that is espoused, there is
                       a kind of antipathy toward non theists all around the
                       world that seems to me all out of synch with the
                       exemplary, ethical lives that most lead. A variety of
                       explanations is usually offered, such as xenophobia
                       (fear of other), and hard-wired religiosity. While there
                       may be some truth to these explanations none of them
                       addresses the odd phenomenon of perversely mislabeling
                       'disbelief' in a deity as 'hatred' of that deity. This
                       particular misunderstanding is seemingly impervious to
                       correction. I think I finally have a clue about this.

                       To some (most?) religious people, the concept of the
                       existence or non-existence of any gods is closely bound
                       to their overwhelming faith-love for the one or ones
                       that they do believe in. Any time the smoke of any doubt
                       creeps up in them, it is fire-hosed back down with a
                       heavy dose of faith-love, as taught by parents, then
                       pastors and fellows. Eventually, even the theoretical
                       possibility [no_atheists]of the non-existence of their
                       pet deity becomes inconceivable. To even suggest it is
                       to insult their faith-love. Such suggestions can only be
                       seen as defiant, rebellious, god hatred by people who
                       know as well as anyone that the god exists, yet they
                       deny it. This is consistent with Falwell s definition of
                       atheism: the rejection of the teaching of our Lord.

                       There are plenty of religious folks that favor state/
                       church separation who wouldn't characterize their
                       position as one of offending their own god. So much the
                       less is this true of non theists who don t even begin to
                       think along these lines at all. To go one step further
                       and paint non theists as megalomaniacs who consider them
                       selves to be a god is a leap of logic left to the mere
                       one-on-the-street, or today, on the information
                       superhighway.  Our own Off Siteaintitfunny comes through
                       on that score with flying colors, stating that it is by
                        insisting  that Americans offend God rather than him,
                       Newdow sets himself up as the new god. There is
                       certainly nothing new in this line of thought.

                       What? You don t believe in leprechauns? You re a
                       leprechaun hater then! Leprechaun hater! Leprechaun
                       hater! You think you re your own leprechaun! The
                       audacity! You want all glory to yourself! That s greedy!
                       The unbridled self-importance! Don t you know what
                       happens to leprechaun haters? Watch your step, buddy!
                       Hater! Denier! Liar, liar, liar! Leprechaun basher! You
                       are anti-leprechaun! An anti-leprechaun! The
                       anti-leprechaun! You will burn, etc. etc. ad nauseum,
                       insert emoticons of happy guys with assault rifles here.
                       It is precisely this process that produces the
                       dehumanization necessary to develop the level of hatred
                       on display here today.

                       This is the kind of language that puts heroes like Dr.
                       Newdow in danger from the mentally unbalanced. [And, he
                       is a true hero, whether you and I happen to agree with
                       every point of his politics or not, if for nothing more
                       than his willingness to stand up for what he thinks is
                       right, in the face of overwhelming odds.] Some people
                       think nothing of making thinly veiled threats. For
                       example, they might allude to previous incidents in
                       which people have been gravely harmed, such as what
                       happened to poor Ms. Madalyn Murray O Hair and her adult
                       children at the hands of three christians. The making of
                       this kind of threat may seem to be nothing more than
                       good clean christian fun on a board such as this but it 
                       s actually the vile vomitus of one sick puppy, times
                       many such message boards all across this great country
                       of ours. --- '02-Sep-2ndGo to top of this page

                       I stand by my analysis of the effects of Newdow photo
                       ridicule that was engaged in by the picture perfect
                       Maiden & Satanta. It seemed to me as though my calling
                       attention to their own photographs was going to be the
                       quickest method of bringing home the point that this
                       kind of talk hurts. I certainly hope that it is not too
                       harsh for me to have wondered aloud about how physically
                       perfect the two of you must truly be, to be pointing at
                       Mr. Newdow and pretending to vomit, or suggesting that
                       he's missing chromosomal material.

                       ...my comment upon the unsavory sniping at Newdow is
                       entirely on topic, considering that it is the only
                       original material, and the lead line in the thread
                       originating post. The remaining material in that post
                       was illegally (IMO, but not my policy call) pasted,
                       copyrighted material, i.e. the FoxNews article, and the
                       rather lengthy sig from which I borrowed my "Ms.
                       Maiden-most-Compassionate" jab, after having been
                       potentially subjected to it over five thousand, one
                       hundred sixty times. --- '02-Sep-2ndGo to top of this
                       page

                       Maiden says:

                       Dancr, what ever happened to discussing the message and
                       not attacking the messenger.

                       Puhleese! The full extent of your thread originating
                       comment was basically "Hey, everybody, look at this guy 
                       s photo. And, now watch me vomit." [my paraphrase]  I
                       addressed that message at length, focusing in turn upon
                       FoxNews  expression of that same message, then yours &
                       Satanta s, and progressing to one or two more who I did
                       not name, to protect the overly guilty.

                       My message is, "Your message sucks! Big time." Is that
                       better? At least it s briefer. --- '02-Sep-2ndGo to top
                       of this post[This thread was moved by an unknown
                       moderator. No reason given]

                       Maiden said: Dancr, ... your post made this thread go to
                       TIO.

                       You may be correct. Since I have not received any
                       communication to this effect from any moderators I will
                       continue to assume they have only the best of motives in
                       making such decisions. If I'm at fault it may be for
                       having dared to speak of the gifts that the elephants
                       left on the dining room table. --- '02-Sep-5thGo to top
                       of this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       Unbelievers to be Destroyed Permalink: URL of this post
                       will appear in your browser's location box

                       This Comment First Appeared at: http://
                       www.timebomb2000.com/vb/showthread.php?s=&postid=370772#
                       post370772

                       According to the Drudge Report article, Bumper Sticker
                       shows earth from space and says, simply *Imagine*"Rev.
                       Jerry Falwell Calls the Prophet Mohammed a 'Terrorist',"
                       the Christian Right s belief is that in the Battle of
                       Armageddon ...non-believers will be destroyed...

                       It's a small step from here to "we are commanded to
                       destroy..."  --- '02-Oct-8thGo to top of this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       Taming Split Hairs Permalink: URL of this post will
                       appear in your browser's location box

                       This Comment First Appeared at:   http://
                       boards2.parentsplace.com/messages/get/ppatheist68/10/
                       6.html

                       You said:  "atheists deny the existence of 'God'" This
                       definition presumes 'the existence' because of the way
                       that it is worded. This presumption is furthered by
                       presenting the word as a proper noun, capitalized, like
                       the name of someone with a personality.

                       A theist is someone who is convinced or accepts on faith
                       that there is a god or that there are gods, i.e. beings
                       that operate outside the laws of nature. To 'accept on
                       faith' means to be determined to believe something
                       despite any and all evidence that might be presented to
                       the contrary.

                       A non-theist, or atheist, is anyone who is not a theist.
                       In other words, they are not convinced that any such
                       beings exist. In addition, they're unwilling to believe
                       it anyway, on faith.

                       One can be a non-theist without having to 'profess' or
                       'confess' anything. It is also not necessary to 'deny'
                       something to be an atheist. Many people who profess to
                       be theists are in fact atheists in that they don't truly
                       believe what they claim, but only say so to go with the
                       flow. Some politicians come to mind.

                       This topic is discussed from another angle at:  Are
                       Atheists Closed Minded? --- '03-Mar-20thGo to top of
                       this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       Who's Counting? Permalink: URL of this post will appear
                       in your browser's location box

                       This Comment First Appeared at:   http://
                       www.tfproject.org/tfp/showpost.php?s=
                       c1a4fd7ae3db4ef3246351f41b9ec7ca&p=1763422&postcount=14

                       A theist is someone who is convinced, for whatever
                       reason, that there is or are or was or were one or more
                       beings that operate outside natural law. Everybody else
                       is not a theist. Two precisely equivalent terms for
                       being "not a theist" are "non-theist" and "atheist".
                       This includes all agnostics, as well as everybody else
                       who does not fit the above definition of a theist.

                       If somebody "thinks" or "believes" there's a diety (or
                       more than one), in the sense that they are not quite
                       "sure", then they are a non-theist. If they vasilate
                       between being sure that there is or are one or more
                       gods, and not being sure, then they are a theist at the
                       times of being convinced, and an atheist at all other
                       times.

                       A person can be convinced by evidence. It doesn't have
                       to be good evidence. It can be thoroughly flawed
                       evidence. As long as they're convinced, they're a
                       theist. They can also decide to remain convicted despite
                       any and all evidence that might ever be presented
                       contrary to their conviction. That's faith.

                       A person can claim to be what they are not. The most
                       bible-toting, Jesus-quoting,
                       never-miss-a-prayer-breakfast politician could be
                       atheist. The televangalist who cries and says "I have
                       sinned" could be atheist. A person can also SEEM to be
                       what they are not. The most dedicated soup-kitchen
                       volunteer could be atheist. The mom homeschooling for
                       religious reasons could be atheist. The group "Atheists
                       for Jesus" is another pretender bender.

                       We won't have a good count until people stop losing
                       their jobs or being killed for leaving the "wrong"
                       impression. --- '05-Apr-28thGo to top of this post
                       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                       
                       Quotes About Atheism

                       The sin of unbelief is Bumper Sticker says *Millitant
                       Agnostic -- I don't know and you don't either!*greater
                       than any sin that occurs in the perversion 
                       of morals -  Thomas Aquinas 

                       Happiness has less to do with getting what you want
                       than 
                       .with learning to like what you get. --- Bobbie Kirkhart

                       The fool says in his heart, 'There is no god.' They are
                       corrupt, they do 
                       abominable deeds, there is none that does good. - New
                       Testament 

                       All religions disagree with each other, Refresh your
                       cache from the web, especially if you're not seeing
                       expected updates.except on the subject of atheism, 
                       they all agree that we are the root of evil. - John R.
                       Brackin 

                       Even in the valley of the shadow of death, two and two
                       do not make six." 
                                     --Tolstoy, on deathbed in 1910, to priest
                       attempting to convert him. 

                       If there come any unto you, and bring not this doctrine
                       [that Jesus is come in the flesh], 
                       receive him not into your house, neither bid him God
                       speed [good luck]" --- II Jn 1::10

                       All thinking men are Atheists.  -- Ernest Hemingway

                                          Positive Atheism's Big List of Quotes
                                                    Off SiteMore Atheism Quotes
                                                                   Other Quotes

                       Bumper Stickers About Atheism

                       Thou Shalt Not Convert Thy Neighbor's Wife
                       Atheism: A Non-Prophet Organization!
                       WWJD = What Would Jefferson Do?
                       No god.  No devil.  Just us.
                       No heaven.  No hell.  Just here.
                       Believe what you're told.  There would be chaos if
                       everyone thought for themselves.


                       Off SiteArticles About Atheism

                       Belief, Truth, and the Columbine Tragedy (Richard
                       Carrier)

                           Exposes the process of anti-atheist myth making as
                           exemplified by the common, yet untrue, belief that
                           the Columbine killers were atheists who killed
                           Cassie Bernal for her courageous willingness to
                           stand up for her religion

                       Writings of John Patrick Michael Murphey
                       Interview with an Atheist (David Mills)
                       The Age of Reason (Thomas Paine)
                       It is Reasonable to Not Believe (Joseph Busche)
                       Atheistic Education and How to Educate an Atheist
                       (Michael Martin)
                       Ethics Without Gods (Frank R. Zindler)
                       Now More Than Ever (Lauren Sandler)
                       Why I am Atheist (Kyle Williams)
                       Phonies and Frauds of the Century (Time Magazine)  N.B
                       second paragraph


                       Off SiteOnline Atheism Resources

                       .101+ Book Atheism Library.

                           An annotated list that's an education in itself,
                           though it would be better if it would link to
                           competitors of Amazon for purchase

                       American Atheists, The Amerrican Humanist Association,
                       Atheism & Freethought,   The Atheism Web,   Atheist
                       Alliance,   Atheists for Jesus,   Atheists United,  
                       Celebrity Atheist List,   Classic Freethinkers Books
                       Online,   Council for Secular Humanism, Heresy Page,  
                       How Can You be an Athiest? [sic],   Internet Infidels
                       Discussion Forum,   Kathleen's Page on Secular Humanism
                       ,   Myths About Atheism,   Opportunists Hall of Shame
                       Awards,    Positive Atheism, Reason for the Common Good,
                          Restrictions Targeting Nonbelievers,   Secular
                       Homeschooling Board,   Secular Parenting Resources on
                       the Internet,   Secular Spirituality,   The Secular Web
                       ,   The Skeptic Society,   Talking About Death,   Top
                       Ten Atheist Myths,   Wasteland of Wonders, 


                       Off SiteRings About Atheism (Rings?):

                       Int'l Atheists Ring of Truth: Next | Skip | Prev | Next
                       5 | Random | List
                       Ring of Atheists: Next | Prev | Next 5 | Random | List
                       A la Carte Ring of Rings: Next | List


                       Off SiteClose to Atheism, But No Cigar:

                       beliefnet,


                       Off SiteCompletely Different POV on Atheism [pov?]

                       The Psychology of Atheism (Paul C. Vitz)

                           A mean-spirited attack upon atheists by a "former
                           atheist" who "...puts many psychologists on the
                           defensive and gives them some taste of their own
                           medicine."

                       God Gave U.S. What We Deserve (Jerry Falwell)
                       Atheists Cannot Understand the True God (Citizens for
                       the Ten Commandments)
                       God, country gain fragile new toehold (Kathleen Parker)
                       (Letters to Editor on this)
                       Atheism, the Enemy of Civilization (Wm. C. Irvine)
                       Life in Our Anti-Christian America

                                       Related A la Carte Pages
                                Powered by the Google Search Engine^i.
                            [                  ][Search](*)lacarte ( )WWW

___________________________                                                 ^s     [ About     [     [ Track [ Best     [            ● ^
                                                                            [      Site ]  Webminder  this    of *A  Linking  Want to  i
                            ●                                               Bottom   ^i      ] ^i    Page! ]   la    to Us ] bookmark,
                            lacarte.orgslashfreedomslashthoughtslashatheism Navbar                     ^i    Carte*    ^i         tell
                            About Freethought, a` la Carte                  Text ]                            ] ^i           friends,
                            Logo of *A la Carte* --- more description(C)*          [About] [Author]  [Track] [Stars] [Link]     print?
                            Dancr*updated* '05-Apr-28th                                                                              *
                                                                                                                                 Back[
                                                                                                                             Donations
                                                                                                                                     ]
[ Access Key Listing ] --- access key is 0 which is zero [ POV ] --- Access Key
is the number 6 [ Privacy Policy ] --- Access Key is the letter P as in papa [
        Text Only Version ] --- Access Key is the letter Z as in ZhaZha
