                                   [adview]
                                   [adview]

                     Liv Tyler Arwen with gloves and sword
The site contains adult images and discussions. If your governing authority has
      decided that you should not read such material, you must leave now.


 I contend that we are both atheists, I just believe in one less god than you
do. When you understand why you dismiss all other possible gods, then you will
                know why I dismiss yours. - Stephen F. Roberts

  Any god who creates a sentient being out of dirt, knowing the being will be
          damned to hell, should have left the dirt alone. - unknown




               Google [                               ][Search]
                      (*)ElvenSarah
                      ( )Web




*                               ● *




[cn_to] [cle]                              [cn_to] * [cn_to] [cle]                        [cn_to]
[c] Saturday, April 23, 2005                   [c]   [c] I'm a computer engineer for a well  [c]
    It s a weird world.                                  known corporation, but my hobby is
                                                         debunking myths and exploring the
                                                         human mind. I'm a former fanatical
    Well folks, I have been cutting back on my           christian. In this blog I expose
    writing lately. I haven t felt good about            the foolishness of many of the
    most of my recent posts. They did not, in            traditions and ideologies of
    any way, mirror the concepts I was trying            Americans and humans in general.
    to get down. I felt I had lost my clarity            Oh, and yes, I still have my pointy
    and was not seeing a lucid thesis in any             ears. :)
    my work. Most of the blame is on being               
    pulled in too many directions with my long           [http://             ]
    work hours. I decided to post less                   [Message             ]
    frequently until I felt like my posts                [                    ]
    would better reveal my thoughts. Now they            [                    ]
    are  but poor reflections in a mirror .              [Name                ] [Submit]    
    Until then I will still read my comments             
    everyday, and greatly appreciate them. I                     << January 2016 >>
    will just be posting less often until the                Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat
    time comes that I feel my ability to                                         01  02
    clearly portray my thoughts has returned.                03  04  05  06  07  08  09
    Here is one for you in the mean time. Hope               10  11  12  13  14  15  16
    you enjoy!                                               17  18  19  20  21  22  23
                                                             24  25  26  27  28  29  30
                                                             31

                                                         ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
    God unveils latest art piece                         
                                                         Web Cliques and Rings:
    God, creator and supreme ruler of the
    universe, unveiled her latest artwork on             < ? Blogs by Pagans # >
    Monday at an underpass in Chicago.
    Jehovah, or God as she prefers to be                 « ? Sarcastic Geeks # »
    called now, released the work to the
    public with no press release, but the                ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
    artwork was quickly discovered by local              
    fans who began flocking to the event                 ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
    quoting God s earlier works and being a              
    bit reminiscent of Star wars fans standing           Link Exchanges:
    outside Grauman's Chinese Theatre.
                                                         Battleready
    A local boy Timmy, who has been saved by a           Brandon Starr
    collie on numerous occasions, noted that             Christina
    he could have drawn a better likeness.               Cruci-Fiction
    Fans where quick to reply that critics               Demented Dom News
    were missing the entire point of the art             Etherealgirl
    piece.  God is currently in her abstract             ferdikom98
    period where she is contrasting with her             La Libertine
    more heavy handed work of a few thousand             Looking Glass
    years ago. Audiences are smarter and more            Low Rent Rat
    sophisticated today and God knows that.              Pungent Unguent
    She is creating mystery art that keeps               Reprobate Silver
    that audience guessing. Is it a message              Schismatrix
    from God or a stain on an underpass? Is it           Scout
    really the Virgin Mary? This is more fun             Shoulder
    for everyone involved. This is one of God            Wailfulrhyme
    s most brilliant works.  Said Pierre de              Winston
    Gaulle, author of  A Gay Man s guide to              WoodSmoke
    God s Art .  This is even more spectacular
    than her chiseling of Mary on the tortilla           Want to exchange links? Let me
    chip, a world renown piece that redefined            know!
    art as we know it. 
                                                         ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
    Critics expect more in the Virgin Mary               
    Series from God. Mary, a former illicit              Learn something:
    lover of God and also her mother, has
    figured prominently in most of her latest
    works. Judging from God s past work, she             ex-christian support forum
    likes to stay with one style for long                Exchristian.net: Discussion and
    periods, then quickly shift to a new                 support for former Christians
    style. God, a misunderstood artist known
    for her mercurial nature has at times
    promised to destroy the entire earth in a
    scene fit for the opening of Hitchhiker.             Talk Origins
    Fans say God can be a bit trying, but as
    long as you follow her demands she is
    actually very loving.
                                                         ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
    Satirical author ElvenSarah has another              
    view of the painting.  Oh, so that s what            Make a difference:
    Mary s vulva looks like  Said Sarah, who
    demands everyone pretend she is an elf.  
    God seems to really have a thing for                 million for marriage
    genitals, I mean, she put them on half the           Sign the Petition for Equality of
    things she created!  I think God has just            Marriage
    finally discovered she is a lesbian and is
    revealing that in her art. 
                                                         Heifer International
    God could not be reached for comment.
                                                         The Hunger Site

                                                         Big Brothers Big Sisters

    [virgin]                                             Charity Guide

                                                         Volunteer Match

                                                         Donate your computer to a poor
                                                         family
    And now, for something completely
    different.                                           Closing the Digital Gap
    Elvensarah Tells the Future:
                                                         Cure Disease with your screensaver
    Scene one done in Family Guy-Esque
    animation. Two cockroaches with British              Taking it Global
    accents have morning coffee at their                 ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
    dinner table.                                        
                                                         I'm listed with these services:
    Roach1 [reading the newspaper] So
    scientists uncovered more of those giant
    two legged creatures that roamed the earth           Blogarama
    millions of years ago. Seems they didn t
    have exoskeletons, just soft fleshy skin.            Globe of Blogs

    Roach2: That s disgusting. I m trying to             Blog Flux Directory
    eat breakfast here.
                                                         ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
    Roach1: Oh, I didn t know we had any                 Banners:
    rotting insect salad left. I think I will
    have some of that.                                   Thanks Winston
                                                         [Elvenlink]

                                                         Thanks Push
                                                         [elven_blin]
    Posted at 03:32 pm by elvenSarah
    Comments (6)   Permalink                             Thanks Christina
                                                         [elven]
    Sunday, February 27, 2005
    ElvenSarah: Proud participitant of the               ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
    1797 XYZ Affair                                      readers online  
                                                         ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
          bat signal searching for logic                 

                                                         This site has been approved by both
                                                         glowing crystals Thummim and Urim
    Whoa, I'm being told if I do not post by
    midnight tonight, my life is in danger. It           ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
    has been a while. I feel like I am living            
    my life holding down the fast forward
    button. I can t seem to enjoy anything               Questions? Comments? elvensarah at
    since I am waiting for my life to be                 cox.net
    perfect. During the week I tell myself
    that I will have time to do everything               If you want to be updated on this
    during the weekend then the weekend hits             weblog Enter your email here:
    and I tell myself I will have more time              [                    ] [register]
    next month. I find myself in the next
    month and it goes from there. I m still
    learning to enjoy the moment. I hope you
    all enjoy these brain exercises.                                  rss feed


                                                                        [bd2]
                                                     ●   [clear]                             ●
    On Morals and Relativity

    Morals are relative. Let me explain my
    position. I hear often how good and bad
    are clearly defined immutable truths and
    if something is good it is always good and
    vise-versa. This just isn t the case
    folks. Let s take a look at a few laws
    from the ten commandments.

    Do not lie:
    Looks like a good law to me. I agree that
    if we could never trust anyone to tell the
    truth, life would (is) very confusing.
    Those who are found to lie at the expense
    of others should be publicly noted as
    doing so. There are times though when I
    believe it is the moral thing to lie.

    Imagine this scenario. You are in Germany
    during Hitler s rule. Armed patrols are
    out searching for Jews so they can be
    taken to prison camps. A soldier knocks on
    your door and asks if you have seen any
    Jews. Should you (a) Lie and say no. (b)
    tell the truth and say yes, we have Corrie
    Ten Boom in our attic. If you said A, then
    you believe that the ten commandments
    should not always be followed. I m sure
    you can think of scenarios when killing,
    stealing, and just about anything can be
    justified under certain situations.




    On mysticism

    Mysticism is currently, and always has
    been, very popular. Religions are big
    everywhere. Television is filled with
    shows like Charmed, cartoons like
    Dragonball Z having characters with mana
    and superpowers, and people who can see
    the future or solve crimes with telepathy
    or psychic powers. It s all very cool. It 
    s cool to make things seem mystical even
    when they are probably not. Anyone who
    doesn t have a religion still says they
    are  Spiritual but not religious ,
    whatever the hell that means. (Seriously I
    see this everywhere. It is even an option
    on the blogdrive profile. Can anyone tell
    me what it means?) Wouldn t we all love to
    wake up one day with a super power. We
    would be famous and would have a great
    advantage over everyone else. Maybe we can
    wake up one day and find out we are in the
    matrix. That would explain why everything
    is so bad. We just have to realize it and
    gain our super powers. We can be the
    saviour of all, or if you prefer, be saved
    by a saviour.

    There is a reason it is called
    supernatural. Supernatural means it cannot
    happen in nature. If it does happen in
    nature (IE you experience it) then it is
    not supernatural; it is a natural thing we
    have not cataloged yet. I m sure there are
    plenty of these things, but I am not
    jumping in front of a train holding a
    rabbits foot and hoping a whispy alien
    saves me.





    Yeah Theocracies!

    Iran, again declaring its  One True
    Religion  as the only way to live, has
    sentenced more women to 100 lashes. Their
    crime you ask? They had sex. They may have
    been raped. One of them was a girl her
    mother sold to be a sex slave and was
    forced to be a prostitute. Anyway I am
    sure it was her fault. Either was she
    broke God s law.

    Bloggers who have spoken out against the
    Iranian Government have been jailed. A
    government that must silence its people
    has much to hide. We wouldn t want people
    to decide that theocracy isn t all that
    great.

    committee to protect bloggers website Free
                Mojtaba and Arash






    The us only club

    Apparently the reason the bible is so
    kooky, and makes no sense to us
    non-believers is that it requires the Holy
    Spirit to really understand what it is
    saying. My question is ff there was a
    building burning, would your write a book
    that only those outside the building
    understood like jesus has? The answer is
    found in Mark 4:10  He told them,  The
    secret of the kingdom of God has been
    given to you. But to those on the outside
    everything is said in parables 12so that,
       they may be ever seeing but never
    perceiving, and ever hearing but never
    understanding; otherwise they might turn
    and be forgiven!  






    Deep thought of the Day: Do you ever think
    god wonders why he has a penis?

    I was told by a Christian that it is very
    wrong to call God a female, or even to
    describe God in a non-gender form. My
    question then becomes, what is god doing
    with this thing other than impregnating
    Mary? Obviously there are no other Gods he
    is boinking in the heavens.



    Quote of the day: Isaiah 2:  In the last
    days. . . . He will judge between the
    nations and will settle disputes for many
    peoples. They will beat their swords into
    plowshares and their spears into pruning
    hooks. Nation will not take up sword
    against nation, nor will they train for
    war anymore. 

    Amen.



    On your way out, please vote at my Debate
    site. Thanks.


    Posted at 10:28 pm by elvenSarah
    Comments (8)   Permalink

    Sunday, January 02, 2005
    I'll post you!

    Well, I've received the necessary 30
    comments on my previous entry so it's time
    for another! As an update on my previous
    post, I found another one of those
    creatures, this time dead in a spider web.
    I evicted the spider and saved the
    leaf-bug guy in a small container. It s
    quite mummified though and appears to have
    already been a meal for the spider. Now I
    just need to find someone to give it to
    who will know what it is.



    Save Sarah!

    Think you can re-convert me in a fair
    fight? I ve set up a debate blog to give a
    chance to have a real debate between a
    Christian and me. No, I don t have time
    for it, but it is something I would really
    like to do. When I started listed out my
    reasons to believe in Christianity, and I
    had them all fleshed out on paper, I began
    to see that none of them were very good,
    and most of them could be claimed by many
    other religions as well. You can read it
    and comment here. Maybe it will take off,
    I don t know. In any case, I wish people
    would all think about why they believe
    what they believe.

    Really it doesn t matter, since even if I
    do become a Christian again, Jesus won t
    forgive me and let me into heaven since I
    called the Holy Spirit fat. Luke 12:10  
    And everyone who speaks a word against the
    Son of Man will be forgiven, but anyone
    who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit
    will not be forgiven.  Oh well. Since
    there is no way I can get into heaven now,
    I might as well make the most out of it.
    If you will excuse me, I have some people
    to kill.



    Fear of Change

    Evolution is a bad word if you are a
    Christian. Before I was old enough to
    fully understand procreation, I knew
    evolution was false. You see, in the bible
    things don t evolve, they are created by
    God. The languages of the earth came about
    when God created them all at the tower of
    Babel. Genesis 11:1  Now the whole world
    had one common language and a common
    speech.  Languages don t evolve, that is
    absurd. The different skin colors of
    humans, well those all came about from
    Noah s sons. All the species in existence
    today and all those that have gone extinct
    were all present on Noah s ark. They all
    lived there a month with all the food and
    environmental needs necessary for their
    survival.

    A fish that can walk and breathe air

    Male fish begin to produce eggs




    Fear of Death

    I ve had a tough time eating healthy now
    that I know I will life forever. According
    to this man humans will no longer die of
    old age starting as soon as 20 years from
    now. I m sure that eventually we will
    master the genetic code and extend our
    lives enormously, though I am very
    skeptical about the 20 year goal. I m
    still waiting for my flying car. Anyway I 
    m sure the bible is right. In Genesis
    6:20, God decides it was a stupid idea for
    him to create humans, so he makes it
    impossible for them to live past 120. That
    will teach them.



    Broken Promises:

    Ephesians 6: 2 Honor your father and
    mother  which is the first commandment
    with a promise  3 that it may go well with
    you and that you may enjoy long life on
    the earth. 

    No reason to cry for the 30,000 children
    who died in the tsunami. They were all
    breaking God s commandment and were
    clearly bad children. If they had obeyed
    their parents, they would have not died so
    young. Don t even get me started on babies
    who are aborted. They must have been very
    evil to die that young.


    I will pray for you

    Christianity is the epitome of laziness.
    One of the reasons it does so well in
    America is that it offers an easy way to
    blow off people in need.  Let s pray for
    those people in need.  Do you think you
    will change God s mind on the situation?
    God:  Well it was in my divine and perfect
    plan to send this person to hell, but
    since you asked, I guess I will allow them
    to find the way to heaven . Try this next
    time someone is in need: Getting off your
    ass and actually helping them.





    The year of cock is upon us. Hope you all
    enjoy it.



    Current Music:
    Vivaldi
    Gwen Stefani   What you waiting for?
    Shakuhachi



    Posted at 09:56 pm by elvenSarah
    Comments (31)   Permalink

    Sunday, December 05, 2004
    Bugs, Banners and Blog links

    Invasion:

    I think I may have found a new form of
    life, and it is in my kitchen. It has
    visited twice now; both times after rain.
    It shows up in the evening and is always
    gone by morning. I was able to snap a few
    photos but they look more like grainy spy
    satellite images or video footage of a
    cigar shaped UFO. My camera is not very
    good and this creature is relatively
    small. Anyone out there know what it is?


    It looks like a small leaf or bark from a
    tree. At first glance that is what I
    thought it was; something that I had
    tracked in from the wet sidewalk.

             overhead creature small


    I noticed some movement and thought the
    air from the vent was blowing on it. A
    closer inspection revealed that it was
    self-propelled. It was dragging itself,
    very slowly, by some kind of suction
    device, or more likely, a hook.




              profile creature small


    This hook was retractable, like a turtle's
    head, and went in quickly when I moved in
    front of it. The movement was reminiscent
    of an inchworm. It would throw the soft
    forward portion of its body forward, then
    drag the much larger portion behind it.
    The velocity of the creature was very
    slow. I imagine the only thing it could
    ever catch would be a snail, so it is
    likely a herbivore or scavenger that eats
    dead flesh.

            front creature hook small




    Affiliates: Friends and Fans

    Have you a link to me on your blog/
    website? If so, I would like to link back
    to you! Hey, it's only fair. I will be
    creating a links section on my side panel
    sometime before the tropic of cancer is
    filled with direct rays of sunlight. If
    you would like to be included please send
    me an e-mail. I might forget if you merely
    leave a tag.

    More Gifts:

    Thanks to Christina, there are now three
    blinkies to choose from when linking my
    site. Thanks Christina! Blinkies/Banners
    are located on the side panel and can be
    used by anyone. As per Internet etiquette,
    please save them to your own server.


    Buying ones and zeros

    Any college students or apartment dwellers
    out there who use a Web laundry system? If
    so I have a WEB laundry card that has 10+
    bucks on it. I'll mail it to you if you
    would like and then you can send me five
    bucks or something. I just hate the
    thought of throwing money away. I have so
    much crap I need to get rid of. Around 100
    christian music CDs which now have no
    appeal to me, old computer parts, et
    cetera. Guess I should hit up e-bay.





    I have a much more serious article planned
    that has to deal with something I have
    been seeing in churches lately. Now that I
    know christianity is false it really
    bothers me how many people have been
    sucked into it and how much influence it
    has on society. The sheep are getting the
    wool pulled over their eyes and it is
    breaking my heart. I'm afraid I am
    becoming a missionary again; this time for
    rationalism instead of superstition.


    current music: Elgar: Violin Concerto -
    Lark Ascending




    Edit to attract Zoologists: gastropod
    organism Mollusca phyla Annelida Nematoda
    Nemertea Platyhelminthes phylum larva
    Lepidoptera Insecta Digenea fasciola
    annelid Hirudinea


    Posted at 06:29 pm by elvenSarah
    Comments (31)   Permalink

    Tuesday, November 09, 2004
    What's going on in the world today

    
     

    An industry in India cheers Bush victory 


    This is a topic I recently got to see up
    close.  My company has shifted all its
    production to factories outside the US.  
    These past weeks I have been traveling the
    world to nations with cheap labor to
    inspect our products at these companies.  
    It looks like this will be something very
    common in the next few years.  

     


    "BANGALORE, India--India's outsourcing
    companies were jubilant Wednesday that the
    elections in the United States will return
    President Bush to office.

     


    "This is great news for the offshoring
    industry," said Nandan Nilekani, chief
    executive of Infosys Technologies, a
    software services company. The trend
    toward outsourcing will now become even
    more inexorable, Nilekani said."

    -Read more-

     

     


    Bible gives value to human life: 


    The LORD said to Moses, "Speak to the
    Israelites and say to them: 'If anyone
    makes a special vow to dedicate persons to
    the LORD by giving equivalent values, set
    the value of a male between the ages of
    twenty and sixty at fifty shekels of
    silver, according to the sanctuary shekel;
    and if it is a female, set her value at
    thirty shekels.  -Leviticus 27

     

     


    Watch out Canada!  

    
    Leviticus 25:44 "Your male and female
    slaves are to come from the nations around
    you; from them you may buy slaves.   
    Thanks God!

     


    Blog gets visit from Secret Service:

    The administration decided to send the
    secret service to this blog after the
    owner decided to post some disagreeable
    content.  Scary. 

     

     


    A better way to vote


    Thank Zarathustra!  Someone stole my idea
    of constituents voting for their three
    favorite candidates.  For some strange
    reason they feel this should only be done
    in case of an unclear win, but I think the
    secondary votes should automatically be
    tallied and added to the count.

    Here is the site

     


     

    Save me Santa!


    I ve been thanking, what if Santa Clause
    IS real?  What if all these years of not
    believing in him have just been pissing
    him off and making him cry?  What if he
    returns on Christmas and says  Oh Sarah, I
    really wanted to give you gifts this year
    but you didn t believe in me.  Instead I
    am going to torture you forever.   That
    would be sad.  I am now urging all of you
    to believe in Santa.  Just believe!  It is
    that easy.  I have no proof, but I know
    one day he will return, soon, and when he
    does, you will all be sorry you didn t
    believe in him and get great gifts.  Santa
    loves you and works year round for your
    benefit. 

     

    
    Have you accepted Santa in your life
    today?  If so, we want to send you a free
    packet of information on how Santa would
    vote in Tuesday s election.  This free
    packet is available to you for a small
    love gift of 30 dollars. 




    Ominous quote of the day


    "I earned capital in the campaign,
    political capital, and now I intend to
    spend it," President Bush said in his
    first news briefing since winning
    re-election

    Bush then added,  "Heh, that's not a
    microphone is it?"




    Current Music - Christina Aguilera:
    Fighter



    Links to take you on your way:

    Mister Neil finds some confederates
    Is it possible to change political
    parties?
     


     

    
    Posted at 09:02 pm by elvenSarah
    Comments (11)   Permalink

    Saturday, October 30, 2004
    Where in the World is ElvenSarah? (The
    all-American Entry)

    Well I'm still out of the country, but it
    has been too long since my last entry so
    here goes!


    God faces renewed "flip-flopping" attacks
     
    This "God" fellow has always seemed shifty
    to me.  Winace has uncovered more policy
    changes and lies by the icon with multiple
    personality disorder


    Washington, D.C. - Satan, running for
    re-election as "Prince of this world"
    (John 14:30), again accused his Democratic
    opponent Jesus H. Christ of being "Lord of
    the flip-flops" Thursday.

    On the campaign trail, the fallen angel
    met with legions of fawning Republican
    supporters. Always a master at public
    oration, the ancient menace described
    Jesus--and His running mate, God the
    Elder--as "out of touch with reality and
    the people." The Devil continued, running
    through a laundry list of Biblical
    contradictions and changes in official
    positions on the part of the two gods.

    "Just look at Their campaign manifesto,"
    declared the incumbent supreme ruler of
    Earth. "Have you folks even seen more
    position changes in one tome? I mean,
    first He, first this bozo wants to create
    a planet, then He regrets it and wants to
    destroy it?! You just can't excuse this,
    like changing your tie after looking in
    the mirror. This is people's lives we're
    dealing with, for His sakes!"

    Dick Chemosh, the Devil's running mate,
    hammered home his leader's arguments with
    an otherworldly charm that stunned even
    long-time Democrats. "I've advised Dark
    Lords from Sauron to Satan, and let me be
    honest for a change: the last time I saw
    such inconsistency on a politician's part,
    I was pretending to be patron god of the
    Moabites. It doesn't end with the Flood.
    Are Kosher laws a good idea, or aren't
    they? Is salvation by faith alone (Romans
    3:28), or is faith dead without works
    (James 2:17)? It just goes on and on!"

    Among other examples cited by Satan's
    campaign, alleged inconsistencies on
    number and location of post-resurrection
    witnesses (Matthew 28:16, Galilee, vs. all
    the other gospels, Jerusalem); whether God
    does (Isaiah 14:21) or doesn't
    (Deuteronomy 24:16) support capital
    punishment of descendents for their
    parents' sins; "The Lord is... not willing
    that any should perish, but that all
    should come to repentance" (2 Peter 3:9)
    vs. "God shall send them strong delusion,
    that they should believe a lie: That they
    all might be damned" (2 Thessalonians
    2:11-12); the differing accounts of
    creation in Genesis 1 and 2; and hundreds
    of other "flip-flops."

    Fundamentalist Christians immediately
    logged on the Internet, drawing on
    centuries of apologetics to explain every
    single one of these Scriptural anomalies.
    More moderate believers were unimpressed,
    and simply denied Satan was attacking
    Jesus' official campaign manifesto,
    rejecting Biblical inerrancy and arguing
    for a variety of more nuanced
    interpretations.

    "This is all very amusing," the Devil
    roared at his supporters. "Perhaps my
    opponent--and his followers--just can't
    keep a story straight... but then, why
    would you trust Him to rule in my stead?"
    Vice Prince Chemosh scoffed at the
    explanations, calling Christian efforts
    "clever but ultimately unconvincing
    rationalizations by those committed to
    believe at any cost." He grinned slyly as
    he added that, "for an omnipotent being,
    an unusual number of God's plans--like the
    global cleansing of evil via deluge--have
    been thwarted." He argued, and cited his
    own campaign to prove his point, that
    God's leadership in the War on Rebellion
    would be incompetent, exposing us to
    supernatural attack from other dimensions.

    Scandalous revelations surfaced Tuesday
    when LordCo Centre WaterMocassins, shoes
    that inflate and allow the wearer to walk
    on water, were photographed in the closet
    of Jesus' Democratic Party Headquarters.
    Satan immediately went on the attack,
    hinting that the Messiah staged his most
    famous miracle.

    Expert opinion on their authenticity was
    divided; Democratic analysts took issue
    with "the fact WaterMocassins were only
    invented in August 2004," but Republicans
    retorted time travel would be easy for
    God. St. Peter, campaign spokesman for the
    Messiah, vigorously denied the fraud
    charges, accusing Satan of "[an]
    embarrassing Photoshop job" on what he
    called "obviously doctored pictures."
    Chemosh joked "Well lookie here, He even
    wears flip-flops!"

    Jesus' True Identity?

    "And its eyes were like
    lightning fires... She
    cast it away from her,
    outside that place, that
    no one of the immortal
    ones might see it, for
    she had created it in
    ignorance....And she
    called his name
    Yaltabaoth..." 
    - excerpt from the Shifty
    Gnostics advertisement,
    quoted from the
    extra-Biblical Apocryphon
    of John

    Analysts agree that Christ's campaign,
    already suffering in the polls from prior
    accusations of dishonesty, can hardly
    afford to ignore these claims. This
    controversy comes on the heels of a
    now-infamous TV ad produced by a group
    calling itself "Shifty Gnostic Heretics
    for Truth." The ad, produced by a
    non-mainstream Christian sect from the
    same continent and millenium as Jesus,
    claims that contrary to His assertions, He
    never served as Supreme Ruler of the
    Universe, but was a bastardized and
    sociopathic creation of an entity that
    did. The Shifty Gnostics accuse Jesus
    Christ--and his alterego, YHWH--of being
    the illegitimate offspring of the real God
    and his often overlooked consort, Sophia.

    Reaction across the mainstream Christian
    world was decidedly negative. Pope John
    Paul II, Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew
    I (spiritual leader of the world's
    Orthodox Christians), Anglican Archbishop
    of Canterbury Rowan Williams, and a bunch
    of nutcases no one cares about like Jerry
    Falwell issued a press release. They
    condemned the ad, calling it "One of the
    reasons we regret the Inquisition ever
    ended." They objected that none of the
    Shifty Gnostics, or their ancient leaders,
    were even in contact with Jesus during his
    earthly ministry. Even Muslims joined in
    the fray, issuing a Fatwa against Satan,
    who is suspected of helping orchestrate
    and/or financing the Gnostic attack. The
    ancient deceiver laughed off their solemn
    condemnation, saying "What are they gonna
    do, blow up a spirit?"

    Jesus himself vehemently denied the ad's
    accusations, saying that His birth
    records--had they survived Jerusalem's
    destruction at the hands of the Romans in
    70 AD--would put to rest all doubts about
    His ancestry. Representatives of the
    mysterious Gnostics were skeptical, and
    considered that "too convenient an
    excuse."



    Push it

    Push, known for granting graphical gifts
    to the weary blogdrive user, has made a
    blinkie for me!  Feel free to use it. 
    Thanks Push!


             elven blinkie from push



    Excuses, Spies, and Election advice from
    abroad

    Some information came my way that hinted
    at family members stumbling across
    my blog.  That is why I was holding off
    posting for a while.  I decided what was
    done was done and was all ready to post
    more, and then my company calls me to do
    some work outside the US.  My travels
    where unexpected and will keep me from
    voting on Tuesday.  Do me a favor and vote
    for your favorite candidate who is not a
    religious fanatic.  Religious wars should
    not be the hallmark of humanity.

    "I knew that my God was bigger than his. I
    knew that my God was a real God, and his
    was an idol." -General Boykin




    Posted at 08:25 pm by elvenSarah
    Comments (2)   Permalink

    Sunday, October 03, 2004
    Do not test your God

    What would it take for you to say that
    your holy book was not the inerrant word
    of God?  Let's look at a few scenarios:

    1.  Someone showed you a direct
    contradiction.  E.G. Purple is evil
    and Purple is holy.  Now if I told you
    that your holy book said this, you would
    automatically begin to find a way to
    dismiss this, and you would accept
    whatever excuse was given to you, no
    matter how bad the reasoning.  Purple is
    holy unless you elevate it above god, then
    it is evil.  "It doesn't make sense to us,
    because god is wiser than us."  "God put
    that in there to test our faith."  Excuses
    such as these can and have
    covered anything written in holybooks.   
    When you are in war, your side is always
    right.  Yes, you are both killing, but
    your side is killing to save innocent
    people.  Hate is blinding, but when you
    drop the hate, and seek the truth you can
    see all sides with no bias.  That is not
    possible while you are still defending
    your way of life.  Here is a contradiction
    from a popular holybook in my country.  Do
    you take a staff or not?

    Mark 6:8  "These were his instructions:
    'Take nothing for the journey except a
    staff-no bread, no bag, no money in your
    belts."

    Luke 9:3  "He told them:  "Take nothing
    for the journey-no staff, no bag, no
    bread, no extra tunic."




    2.  God came down from heaven and revealed
    the correct holy book and told you to
    follow it.  You had been wrong.

    "That wasn't god, that was satan.  The
    bible says satan is beautiful and that is
    why that creature was so beautiful and
    powerful.  That was satan trying to
    confuse us.  God said in our book that we
    have the one true religion."    You see,
    when you believe that it cannot be wrong,
    it won't be.  When something is the
    standard of truth, it will never be
    wrong.  You must first start with a level
    playing field, and then decide what is
    right.  Starting off with an a priori
    belief and then investigating is merely
    self-fulfillment.  You will see what you
    tell yourself to see.




    Today's bible verse:  1 Thessalonians
    5:21  "Test everything.  Hold on to the
    good."  There is some wisdom in that book.




    Do you really believe?

    Here is an interactive question.  Imagine
    you have contracted a deadly disease. 
    There is a cure, maybe an antibiotic, that
    will heal you.  Do you take it, or do you
    pray and trust that if god wants you sick
    you will remain sick, and he will heal you
    if that is his plan?  Is medicine
    circumventing god's will in your life? 
    Before you answer that Luke, a friend of
    Jesus was a doctor, keep in mind that Luke
    never prescribed antibiotics.  Also keep
    in mind that Jesus was close to
    prostitutes as well.  That doesn't
    make prostitution right does it?

    Here is something easier for you.  You
    have a cold.  Would you rather have
    someone pray for you, or would you rather
    have the cold medicine?  The bible says
    you can trample snakes, yet you fear
    snakes.  The bible says you will have
    bliss after you die, yet you fear death. 
    There are those who really do believe
    though, they are called martyrs.  Many
    Muslims truly have faith.  Faith is the
    evidence of things unseen; remember?  If
    that is the case, maybe the Muslims are
    right. 


    I would like to present a challenge.  It
    is the one the prophet Elijah presented to
    the people to prove which god is more
    powerful.  God enjoys the smell of burning
    things.  He says so many times in the
    bible.  Elijah knew this and used it to
    his advantage.  Two altars were set up,
    both with wood and a bull placed upon
    them.  Elijah bet that his god would send
    fire down from heaven and light his
    sacrifice and the god Baal would not be
    able to do so.  He knew god would do this
    to prove to the people that he had all the
    power. 

    Any of you who believe your god can do
    this I challenge you.  Can your god do
    this?  Let me use the taunts that Elijah
    used: "Shout louder.... maybe he is
    sleeping and must be awakened."



    Punked

    So I bought a modem for my new apartment. 
    I ordered it from New York.  I am not in
    New York and it took nearly two weeks to
    get here.  I finally get the thing set up
    after fighting with my cable company.  (My
    former cable company never made me jump
    through so many hoops)  I use the modem
    for about two weeks and it dies.  By the
    time I trouble shoot it and find out it is
    indeed the modem, then get around to
    sending it back, it is day 31 of the 30
    day warranty.  The store will not take it
    back.  I leave messages for Netgear, the
    modem manufacturer, and they refuse to get
    back to me.  Netgear has pissed me off.  I
    should have bought a Motorola in the first
    place.  Just some advice for all of you. 
    I have stacks of old computer parts.  Most
    are too old to donate to anyone, but I
    hate throwing away a good motherboard. 
    Such is life. 


    Well I am off to go see if my altar has
    been set ablaze yet by my god.  Not sure
    who my god is, I guess whoever sets this
    thing on fire.  I'll let you know when it
    happens.  I have my marshmallows ready. 
    Hey, put down that lighting rod! 
    Cheaters.


    Churches with lightning rods are showing a
    lack of faith
     


    Posted at 10:14 pm by elvenSarah
    Comments (9)   Permalink

    Saturday, September 25, 2004
    ElvenSarah reaches 6666; numerologist has
    spontaneous orgasm

                666 small69 small 

     

     

    1.  Horny Christian teens find way to date
    heathen guys

     

    Dating to Save People from Hell is one of
    the funniest sites I have seen all day. 
    Anyone can be a missionary!

    "Jesus told us to reach the "outermost
    parts of the world." I mean, I'm not going
    to fly to Kenya and date some guy who eats
    worms, but I think for me, "outermost
    parts of the world" means all the hot guys
    that live around me here in Fremont,
    California."

    This has got to be satire; at least I hope
    it is.  If not then it is probably the
    saddest thing I have seen all day.

     

     

    2.  Jaw dropping feat of medical science

     

    Scientists in Germany grew a new jaw for a
    man who had his removed due to cancer.  
    This was possible through the use of stem
    cells, meaning that here in the US, we
    cannot complete such a procedure.  Just to
    be clear, no babies where hurt harvesting
    the stem cells; they came from the patient
     s own body.  Modern luddites, also known
    as the religious right, have associated
    stem cells with horrible pictures of baby
    harvests.  That is just not the case. Read
    the story here.

     

     

    3.  Science lessons from the bible

     

    How to make a sheep striped (Genesis
    30:25-43)

     

    In today s lessons from the bible, we
    learn how to make polka-dot wool.  The
    secret, according to ancient wisdom, is to
    have your sheep look at stripes while they
    mate.  If they do this, their offspring
    will have stripes!  So that explains it.  
    So many great things in this book. 

     

    While you are reading this chapter you may
    also notice verse 27 says you can use
    divination to see if God loves you and is
    going to make you rich.  For those of you
    unfamiliar with divination, this is the
    practice of reading anything from palms,
    tea leaves, animal entrails, etc.  Now go
    at it!

     

     

    Flat Earth Society

     

    Apparently the world is flat and if you
    say differently then you are ignoring the
    evidence otherwise.  This ancient wisdom
    is taken from the prophet Daniel 4:11   "
    The tree grew large and strong and its top
    touched the sky; it was visible to the
    ends of the earth.  Oh come on Sarah the
    Elven, that is obviously an analogy.  
    Exactly, it is an analogy that only works
    with a flat earth!  Why is god passing on
    information to humans that makes them
    believe the earth is flat?  Shouldn t god
    use an analogy that actually supports the
    truth?  Later we have Satan showing Jesus
    all the kindoms of the world, from a
    really tall mountain.  Another analogy?  
    Is anything in this book actually a true
    story?

    
    More here:

     

    http://members.aol.com/jalw/
    flat_earth.html  (Many additional pages of
    interest on this site.  I m happy to say I
    have actually met this man)

     

    http://forum.cygnus-study.com/archive/
    index.php/t-2632.html

     

     

    4.  Porn Star or My Little Pony?

     

    What were the creators of MLP thinking?  
    Take a break from that heavy reading and
    researching and read this page.  Also some
    more humorous t-shirts.

     

     

    5.  You too can work at the Elven Factory!

     

    I worked until 2 am Friday.  We need more
    employees and the big bosses know that.  
    If you are looking for a job, this is your
    shot.  We are hiring computer test
    engineers for our Quality Assurance Lab.  
    Here are the qualifications:

     

    Must have at least a four year degree in
    closely related field

    Must have thorough knowledge of computers

    Must not be an asshole.

     

    No exceptions.  Send me your resume if you
    are interested.

     

     

    6.  I m healed!

     

    Oh, was I ever sick last week.  I was
    reading a blog by a guy with a sinus
    infection and I caught it.  Must be more
    careful out there.  Anyway I prayed to my
    pet rock and I am now feeling great!  Pet
    rock never lets me down.  Every time I
    have been sick I have gotten over it
    thanks to pet rock.  I pray to pet rock
    before I go on car trips and just look, I
    have never died in a car accident thanks
    to pet rock.  I have never died at all!  
    Pet rock always answers all my prayers
    with yes, no, or later.  Sometimes pet
    rock says no, but I am fine with that,
    since pet rock obviously knows best.  I
    have always come through with its wisdom. 
    Where would I be without my pet rock?  Why
    would you deny the power of pet rock, you
    big meany!

     

     

    7! 7! Oh god 7! 

     

    Wealthy King has orgy with 1000 woman.  A
    wealthy Mediterranean king has completed a
    search for 1000 of the most attractive
    women in the world.  The women will be
    part of his permanent harem that will
    ensure all his sexual needs are met.  In
    return, the women will be allowed to live
    in his palace free of rent.  The entire
    group is also a big fan of giant penis
    poles.  One author, who calls himself  God
     , claims this king is the wisest man to
    EVER live.  Read more at 1 Kings 11:1-3.





    Was it good for you?


    Posted at 10:08 pm by elvenSarah
    Comments (6)   Permalink

    Sunday, September 12, 2004
    End of an Era

    Loosing my Family (Matthew 10:34)

    My family visited last weekend.  It may be
    the last time I EVER see them on good
    terms.  You see, there is this book that
    was written long ago.  I read it and
    realized it was fiction.  They, on the
    other hand, are part of a cult that is
    based on a particular interpretation of
    the book.  There are many of these groups,
    each believing they are the one reading
    the book correctly.  The one thing all the
    groups have in common is a belief that any
    other book that does not call their book
    perfect, is out to destroy the world. 
    Well, the book is not perfect. 

    Imagine the worst thing you could tell
    your family; something so bad that they
    will be horrified.  They will scream, cry,
    be ashamed of you.  The absolute worst
    thing I can tell my family is that I am no
    longer a christian.  So why tell them you
    ask?  Because I do not want to live a lie
    for the rest of their lives.  I do not
    want to continue to promote what I believe
    to be morally reprehensible.  In a family
    that is this fanatical, they know about
    your religious involvement.  They ask
    where I am going to church.  They ask
    about my walk with God.  They ask about my
    point of view on subjects and want me to
    nod in agreement when they talk about the
    superiority of their religion.  I cannot
    continue to go to church every week,
    clapping my hands at the charlatan on
    stage, and spending my time and money on
    something I do not believe in.  It is
    killing me, but leaving will kill the
    relationship with my family and many of my
    friends.  It may also kill my mother.  It
    should not come down to this.  Oh how it
    angers me that our religious society has
    set up this trap for my family.  It will
    be absolutely terrible, but maybe I can
    pull a few persons to reason through it
    all.  With such a great cost it is not
    wonder more people do not leave this
    institution.  It is my hope that the next
    generation does not have to endure this
    crime against humanity.  Fanaticism kills.




    Ugh, Politics: A perspective from a fed up
    layman

    I watched part of the republican
    convention and after vomiting up my
    stomach I asked myself, "Why do we need a
    president anyway".  Having one person
    (man) in charge of an entire nation and
    being the mouthpiece for everyone seems
    absurd.  Why not have a more complete
    representation of the populous?  Any idea
    that cannot be decided by a national vote,
    should be decided by vote of an elected
    body.  We already have this in place with
    congress, and it does offer more balance
    than the office of president.  One nut jub
    gets elected and it can really fuck up the
    nation and world.  One nut job out of 100
    has less power.  Of course I also have
    problems with our congress, but that is
    for another discussion.

    Our system needs much reform.  It has
    evolved greatly since 1776.  One thing we
    must change is the way we nominate and
    elect individuals and the party system. 
    We must elect our officials on a national
    level.  One vote should be worth the same
    no matter what state you live in.  The
    electoral college system was meant to
    protect us from the dumb populous but it
    does no such thing.  In fact if it
    did, then why the hell would we vote
    anyway?  I have ranted on that before so
    let's move to finance reform.  (Remember,
    I wanted to get actual information on
    candidates such as voting records, written
    declarations on where they stand, etc
    instead of just a simple Dem/Rep)


    Finance reform ideas:  1.  All donations
    should be anonymous to the recipient. 
    That way not one can be bought.  Our
    leaders can not be puppets to the rich. 
    Strict penalties must be in place for any
    candidate who willfully attempts to find
    who is supporting him/her. (Damn I
    hate gender-based pronouns)  It should
    also be illegal for anyone to notify an
    official that they have donated money. 
    2.  Money not specifically raised for a
    campaign should not be given to a party. 
    That means the stock I purchase in a
    company should not be going to support a
    party.  If the people who profit from that
    stock or corporation wish to donate then
    that is fine.  Individuals should be the
    only entity that can vote and support a
    candidate.  3.  A cap on campaign spending
    must be in place.  It should not be a
    competition on who can dump the most money
    into advertising. 





    Funny Shi(r)t
    911 hijackers heard god's voice
    Lil Ms Drama dug up some hilarious bumper
    stickers.  I've had a few ideas for my own
    as well so I started a cafe press account
    and will add some when I get time and get
    paintshop installed on my machine again. 
    I don't want to try to design something
    with M$ paint.  One of the ideas I had for
    a shirt will be a bit esoteric.  The nerds
    may like it though:  RAID 1 SAVES










    On a completely unrelated TMI note

    Why does the end of summer make me so
    horny!  I'm crawling out of my skin here. 
    Geez.





    Erotica of the week:

    Yet she became more and more promiscuous
    as she recalled the days of her youth,
    when she was a prostitute in Egypt.  There
    she lusted after her lovers, whose
    genitals were like those of donkeys and
    whose emission was like that of horses. 
    So you longed for the lewdness of your
    youth, when in Egypt your bosom was
    caressed and your young breasts fondled. -
    Ezekiel 23

    Your stature is like that of the palm,
    and your breasts like clusters of fruit.
    I said, "I will climb the palm tree;
    I will take hold of its fruit."
    May your breasts be like the clusters of
    the vine,
    the fragrance of your breath like apples,
    and your mouth like the best wine.
    Song of Solomon 7

    A loving doe, a graceful deer-
    may her breasts satisfy you always,
    may you ever be captivated by her love.
    Proverbs 5




    This week's memory Verse:


    "If ye will not hear, and if ye will not
    lay it to heart, to give glory unto my
    name, saith the LORD of hosts, I will even
    send a curse upon you, and I will curse
    your blessings: yea, I have cursed them
    already, because ye do not lay it to
    heart. Behold, I will corrupt your seed,
    and spread dung upon your faces, even the
    dung of your solemn feasts; and one shall
    take you away with it." (Malachi 2:2-3)



    Current Music: Delerium Featuring Sarah
    McLachlan: Silence

    Let's hear from you


    Posted at 07:30 pm by elvenSarah
    Comments (11)   Permalink

    Thursday, September 02, 2004
    Give Thanks

    Doctor: There is no pulse.  Charge the
    defibrillator!
    Clear!
    bbbzzzzzt!
    Sarah Violently fills her lungs with any
    air unfortunate enough to be near her,
    looks up with a wry smile on her face and
    exclaims, "I'm back!".


    Dear Winston, thank you for the beautiful
    gift

    The author of The Misapplied Criminal Mind
     has heard my cries and took it upon
    himself to correct the situation.  No, he
    didn't tape my mouth shut.  He made a
    linky banner for me!  Feel free to use it.


             ElvenSarah banner linky

                         


    Thank God for Air Conditioning!

    God announced today in a press release
    that he has invented air conditioning. 
    Reversing an earlier statement proclaiming
    everything good, God accepted
    responsibility for the scorching summer
    heat.  "I realized that this was my bad,
    and I needed to do something about it, so
    I set off to find a way to bring cool air
    to my beloved pets.  A short four thousand
    years later I thought up air
    conditioning.  Well, actually I thought it
    up some time ago, but got sidetracked on
    releasing it.  Again my bad."

    A reporter from ElvenSarah tried to
    ask God why he didn't just change the
    climate, but was only able to get his
    answering machine. 


    The Gallery of God (Soon to be HTMLized on
    its own page.  [crosses fingers])

    ┌────────────────┬───────────────────────┐
    │god baby marines│                       │
    │God in an       │                       │
    │undated campaign│                       │
    │photo           │     god halloween     │
    │                │ God: Halloween, 1987  │
    ├────────────────┼───────────────────────┤
    │                │    god staff movie    │
    │                │                       │
    │    god asia    │ God Guest starred in  │
    │                │   the Movie The Ten   │
    │God Visits Asia │Commandments.  This is │
    │ (It had been a │ an outtake from when  │
    │     while)     │   the director was    │
    │                │  telling him how to   │
    │                │        stand.         │
    ├────────────────┼───────────────────────┤
    │    god santa   │                       │
    │                │                       │
    │Every December, │     god circa 1841    │
    │God gets festive│                       │
    │ and dresses up │    God Circa 1840     │
    │like Santa.  He │                       │
    │   enjoys the   │                       │
    │     irony.     │                       │
    ├────────────────┼───────────────────────┤
    │  how the heck  │    God chats it up    │
    │How the Heck did│                       │
    │ they do that?  │ God chats it up with  │
    │No matter, let's│ the tribulation clan  │
    │  see how they  │men, confirming that we│
    │  like SARS.    │ are indeed in the end │
    │                │        times.         │
    ├────────────────┼───────────────────────┤
    │                │ god bear              │
    │ god lab        │                       │
    │Young God in his│God reenacts 2 kings 2:│
    │Lab             │23-24 with the Mcmorris│
    │                │         kids.         │
    └────────────────┴───────────────────────┘





    Wow, I have been busy folks.  I was
    thinking about creating a blog called "The
    Corporate Life" after all the crazy things
    that have happened to me in the last two
    months, thanks to my job, but I need to
    work on updating this one first.  :)  Hope
    to have a real entry soon!  Thanks for
    reading.

    Current food:  Cheerios with organic
    milk and Naked Juice: Superfood Green
    Machine (It's my veggies)



    Posted at 09:24 pm by elvenSarah
    Comments (5)   Permalink


                                    Next Page

●   [clear]                                    ●


