The Odd Blog

And when our cubs grow / We'll show you what war is good for

  • Home
  • Facts About Mike
  • Mike’s Laws
  • Words

  • Recent Posts

      □ Oh, please, please! Please do it!
      □ Jim Hoft is still a moron
      □ Equally yoked?
      □ How now? A bat? Dead, for a ducat, dead!
      □ Who Yoo, what Yoo do?
  • Begging For People In Need

      □ Please Donate to Rumproast's Fundraiser for StrangeAppar8us
  • Blogalicious

      □ “Why, That’s Delightful!”
      □ Animal Biology WebTalk
      □ Bad Fiction
      □ Gary William Murning Online
      □ Jon Taplin
      □ Lawyers, Guns and Money
      □ Millard Filmore’s Bathtub
      □ Motivated Grammar
      □ Picturenose
      □ Rambling On
      □ RumpRoast
      □ Sadly, No!
      □ SaintPaulGrrl’s Northern Exposure
      □ Steve, Don’t Eat It!
      □ The Alligator
      □ The Curmudgeon
      □ Thirty Day Experiment
      □ Wonkette
  • Idiosyncratica

      □ Gary William Murning Online
      □ Rambling On
  • Teh Sceince!

      □ For The Sake of Science
      □ Halfway There
      □ Homologous Legs
      □ NeuroLogica
      □ Pharyngula
      □ Tiny Frog
  • Toons

      □ Amazing Super Powers
      □ Apathy Adventures
      □ Basic Instructions
      □ basketcase comix
      □ Boat Crime
      □ Buttersafe
      □ Calm Blue Oceans
      □ Chainsaw Suit
      □ Circle Versus Square
      □ Comixpedia
      □ Ctrl+Alt+Del
      □ Cyanide & Happiness
      □ Garfield Minus Garfield
      □ Hockey Zombie
      □ I Drew This
      □ Least I Could Do
      □ LegoRobot
      □ Order of The Stick
      □ PartiallyClips
      □ Pictures For Sad Children
      □ Questionable Content
      □ Saturday Morning Breakfast Cereal
      □ Simulated Comic Product
      □ Subnormality
      □ The Adventures of Dr McNinja
      □ the rut.
      □ the urf
      □ theWAREHOUSE
      □ XKCD
  • Tags

    Atheism balloon juice barack obama ben stein bible bike birth certificate
    birthers blogging books christianity civil liberties communism constitution
    cooking creationism death dinosaur noises douchebags election elections
    england evolution expelled feminism fiction film food funny gary murning
    gay gay marriage God gordon brown homosexuality humor humour Idiosyncratica
    idiot idiots ignorance immigration intelligent design internet jesus labour
    party lottie rambleson love marriage mccain morons music my wife
    natural-born citizen news obama Personal pharyngula philosophy Politics
    president racism religion republicans science sex stupid terrorism Veganism
    vegetarianism wingnuts wingnuts on parade women Work writing
  • Blog Stats

      □ 89,553 people have wasted some time here since 4th November 2007

  • RSS BBC News

      □ Doctors' strike is unnecessary - Hunt
      □ Iran detains 10 US sailors in Gulf
      □ 'IS bomber' kills tourists in Istanbul
      □ Obama to give upbeat State of the Union
      □ Child killer Robert Black dies in jail
  • Top Posts

      □ Ben Stein Is A Big Fat Idiot
  • Recent Comments

    [46] Lottie on Oh, please, please! Please do…
    [7f] birthmark2 on Oh, please, please! Please do…
    [d1] Jim Hoft is still a… on Barrel Envy
         Hustler Magazine Res… on Barrel Envy
    [76] That Other Mike on About fucking time…
  • Archives

    Archives [Select Month  ]
  • Subscribe

      □ Entries (RSS)
      □ Comments (RSS)
  • [th_bi-prid]

    site statistics

    [120x20_su_]

    Add to Technorati Favorites

    Political Blogs - BlogCatalog Blog Directory

    [bike]

Oh, please, please! Please do it!

Posted by That Other Mike on 20/06/2012

[enhanced-buzz-32481-13004780]

Doug Ross, at home, with unnamed vegetable companion

You know what? I would love-love-LOVE it if Rmoney adopted the crazy shit being
recommended here by Doug Ross, and you know why?

Because if he does, there won’t be a President Romney — the ideas are so
colossally dumb and out of touch that it would sink the Romney campaign like
the Titanic. Shit, if your whole train of thought is kicked off by Jennifer
“Wrong-About-Everything” Rubin then you are wrong by definition, no exceptions.
Not even if you come to a completely different point of view, because her
idiocy infects everything it touches, like some kind of zombie editorial.
Jennifer Rubin is so monumentally racist and cretinous that only a fatuous,
asinine dimwit could consider her scribbling a good jumping off point… Oh,
wait.

So, please, Mittens, do adopt the ideas so generously [DEL:farted out:DEL]
provided by [DEL:insane asylum escapee:DEL] Doug Ross, it’ll be just swell for
your campaign!

Posted in Politics | Tagged: director blue eats poop, doug ross, doug ross is
so out of touch his hands fell off, jennifer rubin, morons with blogs, rmoney,
romney, stupid wingnuts are stupid, wingnuts | 2 Comments >>

Jim Hoft is still a moron

Posted by That Other Mike on 19/06/2012

Jim Hoft is still a moron who can’t understand simple English and makes up
dishonest headlines.

A few notes:

  • 100th, Jim. That means he played 100 total, not 100 that day, you
    pseudo-Albinoid cretin. That is probably fewer than most Presidents at this
    point in their first term (although if that’s incorrect, I’m happy to be
    corrected).
  • “I won’t rest until X is achieved!” is only taken literally by idiots (like
    you), partisan hacks (like you), or people who don’t understand simple
    English (like you). Hey, Jim, you made the trifecta. Your mother must be so
    proud of you.

Yeesh. I wish the right wing had a credible, sane voice representing them,
instead of morons like Jim Hoft. It would make things much more bearable.

Posted in Politics | Tagged: golf, jim hoft is a fucking idiot, obama, Politics
, Presidenting while Black, racism, supersekrit racism | Leave a Comment >>

Equally yoked?

Posted by That Other Mike on 18/06/2012

It’s kind of a shame to lose a voice for atheism – it always is when someone
decides to jump back into the theist slime pool, but I can’t help thinking that
someone whose reasoning skills are so evidently poor is hardly a great loss.

(Via)

Posted in Atheism | Tagged: Atheism, blaghag, unequally yoked | Leave a Comment
>>

How now? A bat? Dead, for a ducat, dead!

Posted by That Other Mike on 18/06/2012

A short time ago, while I was giving my wife her night time foot, hand, and
back rubs (because I am the shit when it comes to being a husband, yo), we were
awoken by our son screaming like a mad bastard from his bedroom.

We both rushed into his room and found him screeching, flailing and generally
freaking out because a bat had flown through the rip in his window screen and
was flying around in a panic. The Boy was having a major freakout and loudly
cursing at it; it’s the first time I’ve ever heard anyone tell a bat to fuck
off.

Eventually, the Boy managed to dodge past the bat and fling himself through his
bedroom door, whereupon he managed to calm down, while cursing and calling
imprecations down upon all bats in general and this one in particular.

After a while, I volunteered to go in and capture the vicious beast — at the
first pass, it was still flying in circles around the room, but then I managed
to go in and all was quiet. I looked around, and the bat was sitting on the
carpet in the corner, looking all tuckered out. I immediately covered it with a
plastic bucket, and then employed the classic cardboard under vessel technique,
and let it go off our balcony.

All in all, a rather interesting evening.

Posted in Politics | Tagged: bats, exciting events, hamlet, nature red in tooth
and claw, shakespeare | Leave a Comment >>

Who Yoo, what Yoo do?

Posted by That Other Mike on 16/06/2012

Jesus Haploid Christ, how did anyone as dumb as John Yoo appears to be get
through law school? The fact that he’s an unmitigated partisan hack shouldn’t
factor into it, because, you know, law school.

Whether he’s right or wrong is almost irrelevant at this point, to be honest —
given his history, he should be disbarred immediately, and then waterboarded
every day until he says he’s sorry (and means it).

The comments are even more priceless, though — a bunch of bigots and no-mark
NRO readers (but I repeat myself) opining on Constitutional law and the limits
of the Presidency as if they knew anything; notably absent is any discussion of
the years 2001 to 2009 or signing statements during that time. Funny, that;
it’s almost as if NRO readers were hypocritical douchebags or something.

Via Zandar at B-J, who wrote a much better post than I did.

ETA: More via OTB where Doug Mataconis fails to carry as much Republican water
as he usually does.

Posted in Politics | Tagged: constitution, did you miss the two presidential
terms occurring between 2001 and 2009 or what, DOMA, DREAM Act, executive,
Human rights, john yoo, patriot act, Politics, rule of law, unitary executive,
wingnut hypocrisy | Leave a Comment >>

Is getting a book signed a fundamental political right?

Posted by That Other Mike on 15/06/2012

No? Then shut the fuck up, you fucking idiot.

ETA: Same goes for you, Glenn, you cretinous fuck knuckle – attending a speech
is not a Constitutionally-protected right.

Posted in Politics | Tagged: prepper politics, stupid wingnuts are stupid,
wingnuts | Leave a Comment >>

The “Paleo diet” Gone Modern

Posted by That Other Mike on 12/06/2012

Shit, if the Paleo diet described by Freddie here were easily available, I
would eat the hell out of it. Organ meat, frogs and such? Hell yeah, I’m
European, that shit doesn’t scare me.

Posted in Politics | Tagged: balloon juice, cavemen eated my lunch, food,
freddie de Boer, omnomnomnomnomnomnomnom, the paleo diet | Leave a Comment >>

Similar small dilemmas

Posted by That Other Mike on 11/06/2012

These are not huge problems I’m thinking about here, just a few thoughts.

 1. Occasionally I read something that makes a lot of sense on a blog which is
    otherwise crazypants, like this, and I don’t know how to react; on the one
    hand, I want to encourage people who are making sense, but I don’t want to
    encourage the crazy.
 2. Sometimes I get likes and followers, which is nice. I’m under no illusions
    about the reach and readership of this place, it’s just a way for me to
    sometimes say stuff which I want to say. It’s not a big blog, and I don’t
    mind that. Anyway, sometimes I get likes and followers, and I check out
    their blogs, and they are people who are otherwise nice but whose views I
    oppose very strongly. It’s nice to get followers, but do I just overlook
    this dissonance?

Posted in Politics | Tagged: thinking about stuff | Leave a Comment >>

 

Posted by That Other Mike on 06/06/2012

We lost a visionary and a brilliant man. Goodbye, Mr Bradbury, and thanks for
all the books – you were awesome.

Posted in Politics | Leave a Comment >>

Silly wingnuts are silly.

Posted by That Other Mike on 06/06/2012

Ah, wingnuts. You never get tired of proving the point you’re trying to argue
against, do you?

Oh, and one more thing – Marxism actually means something as an idea. Throwing
it around as a catch-all insult for stuff you dislike just make you look like
even more of an idiot.

Posted in Politics | Tagged: feminism, marxism, Politics, stupid wingnuts,
virginity is not valuable, war on women, wingnuts | Leave a Comment >>

<< Previous Entries
 
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. | The Andreas09 Theme.
Follow

Follow “The Odd Blog”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[b]
