                            Rob Sherman for Congress
                           5th District of Illinois
                             Illinois Green Party
                               [RobDailyHerald]

                        Real Change     Dramatic Change
                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                     Cookies must be turned on to donate.

                                        

Rob Sherman is running to be the Illinois Green Party candidate for Congress
from the 5th District of Illinois in the March 15, 2016, Primary Election. 
Here is my campaign platform:

 

                    ENVIRONMENTAL, LABOR AND FISCAL SANITY

These three issues are the foundation of my campaign.

Global warming is real.  We need to stop it.  I will sponsor legislation to
reduce air and water pollution by big corporations to the greatest extent
possible.

I will also sponsor legislation that eliminates any and all tax breaks for big
corporations who ship our jobs out of the country or overseas.

We need to stop Debt Dumping, where one group gets a financial benefit while
another group gets stuck with the bill.  In particular, we need to stop running
up the national debt, which is where government spends money it doesn't have
and sticks the bill on people who don't have a vote to stop it, namely our
children and the unborn.  I will stop that from happening through strong
legislation.

Send Rob Sherman to Congress and I'll make these three issues the top
priorities of my term in office.

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                        

                   ELIMINATE CHRISTMAS AS A FEDERAL HOLIDAY

Christians want to put Christ back into Christmas.  I agree.  The way to do
that is to get the federal government out of the religion business.  When
government does religion, it has to water it down and make it bland and generic
in order to pretend that it's secular and constitutional.  Meanwhile, what
Christians really want is a robust Christmas that is all about Jesus and not
about retail spending.

Let's put Christians back in charge of Christmas by letting them lead the
celebration, rather than having government decide how and when Christmas should
be observed.  Besides, not every Christian celebrates Christmas on December
25th.  Orthodox Christians observe Christmas on or about January 7th.

In many conversations about this topic that I have had with Christian voters in
the 5th District, they surprisingly agree with me that Christmas would be FAR
better off if government would just leave it alone and let the Christians
decide when and how it should be celebrated.  In addition, people of other
religions and us secular types have long been perplexed as to why the Big Day
of white Northern European Christians and white Western European Christians is
a legal holiday, but the holidays of other religious traditions are treated as
Second Class.

Secular government for all!  State/church separation for everybody!

Send Rob Sherman to Congress and I'll eliminate Christmas as a federal holiday
to put Christ back into Christmas and so that all religions, and us
secularists, too, are treated equally by the federal government.

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                        

                     MAKE NEW YEAR'S EVE A FEDERAL HOLIDAY
                    DESIGNATE NEW YEAR'S EVE AS SCIENCE DAY

Once I get Christmas banned as a federal holiday, labor would be concerned that
they've lost a paid day off.  I propose making New Year's Eve a replacement
federal holiday called Science Day.

This would have several positive impacts.

First, it would restore the paid day off that would be lost be eliminating
Christmas.

Second, we all like three-day weekends, but we love four-day weekends even
more.  Currently, there are no federal consecutive day holidays, other than
Thanksgiving, but that's not an official two-day holiday.  Making both Science
Day and New Year's Day federal holidays, we would ensure four-day weekends
almost every year.  In those years when one of those two days is on a
Wednesday, I'm sure that most employers would give the day off on either the
preceding Monday or the trailing Friday, making a five-day weekend.  Three
cheers for that!  When one or both of those two days would occur on the
weekend, the holidays would be observed on the Friday and Monday surrounding
the holidays.

Third, by designating New Year's Eve as Science Day, we would go from getting
stupid on religion to getting smart on science.  That's a good thing!  We could
still maintain the tradition of exchanging gifts at the end of the year, only
the focus would shift to gifts that would make us smarter, not dumber.

And fourth, by designating Science Day as our federal national gifting holiday,
it would extend the holiday shopping season by a whole week, leading to more
purchases and boosting the economy even more.  It would also encourage
employers to make that day the appropriate time for a big year-end bonus. 
Let's do that!

Send Rob Sherman to Congress and I'll make Science Day on New Year's Eve a
federal holiday replacement for Christmas, with all of the inclusiveness and
fiscal benefits that go with it.

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
 

                                        

          END FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SPONSORSHIP OF ANTI-ATHEIST BULLYING

  • Eliminate God from our money.

  • Eliminate God from the Pledge of Allegiance.

It's time to end religious bullying by the federal government.  We don't
tolerate bullying of any other minority group in this country, not even of
Muslims, so why is it OK for the federal government to not only tolerate but,
in fact, sponsor bullying of those of us who are smart enough to realize that
God is make-believe?

I will sponsor legislation to get "In God We Trust" off of our money and "One
Nation Under God" out of our Pledge of Allegiance.  After all, atheism is the
fastest growing theological perspective in the country, so why should we
continue to be criticized, mocked, insulted and ridiculed for being right?

                                   [medium]

Atheists and other secularists in the 5th Congressional District and across the
country have been complaining about these two issues for a half century.  Now
you have a chance to do something about it by supporting my campaign as a
volunteer or with a donation.  If you don't act now to support this
opportunity, don't complain, later, when you no longer have a realistic chance
to get something done about it.

Remember:  Iran is one nation under god.  We're one nation under a
Constitution!

Send Rob Sherman to Congress and I'll get the anti-atheist religious graffiti
off of our money and get the anti-atheist religious editorial removed from our
Pledge.

                                        

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                        

        ELIMINATE THE CHRISTIAN TALIBAN FROM THE UNITED STATES MILITARY

Cadets, officers and civilian staff have been complaining for years about being
pressured to convert to evangelical Christianity by Command Staff and other
uniformed personnel.  The problem seems to be the worst at the Air Force
Academy in Colorado Springs, according to reports that I've read on the
Military Religious Freedom Foundation web site.

The Air Force Academy used to display a banner in their football team locker
room proclaiming I am a member of Team Jesus.  Now, the players do a Christian
prayer circle on the football field before the game while wearing uniforms that
were issued to them by the federal government to be used for secular purposes. 
This sort of thing provides Muslim extremists with justification for their call
for defensive jihad against America and Americans, claiming with a great deal
of accuracy that the American military is on a Christian crusade against Islam.

Our uniformed heroes deserve better than to be nagged by Command Staff to get
stupid on Jesus in order to be a good soldier.

Send Rob Sherman to Congress and I'll eliminate the Christian Taliban from the
United States Military by launching a Congressional investigation into
unconstitutional proselytizing at the Air Force Academy and anywhere else that
it exists in our Armed Forces.

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                        

                        NEW ROSTER OF FEDERAL HOLIDAYS

The current roster of federal holidays consists of a lot of commemorative days
that really are completely irrelevant to the lives of most people.  For
example, Presidents' Day in February has devolved into just a big day for
selling appliances, cars and mattresses.  Nobody cares that the third Monday in
February is supposed to honor US Presidents.  All anybody cares about is that
it's a day off from school or, in some cases, work, and who cares or even
remembers the reason why.

I will sponsor legislation to replace our current roster of ten federal
holidays with a new set which keeps some of the old but substitutes in a lot of
new, more relevant federal holidays.  My list also spreads out the holidays so
that no more than one federal holiday occurs each month, unlike with our
current set.

Here are the old and proposed new holidays, with my comments, below.  Remember
that this is a starting point for discussion:

OLD                     WHEN                                   
NEW                WHEN

New Years        January 1st                                 New Years         
January 1st
M L King, Jr.  Third Monday in Jan.                  
G Washington  Third Monday in Feb.                   Valentine's Day     Second
Monday in February
                                                                          
Opening Day and Rob Sherman's Birthday   First Monday in April
Memorial Day  Fourth Monday in May                Mother's Day        Second
Monday in May
                                                                          
Father's Day         Third Monday in June
Independence Day  July 4th                                 Independence Day -
Memorial Day - Veterans' Day   July 4th
                                                                          
Children's Day       Second Monday in August
Labor Day       First Monday in Sept                    Constitution Day -
Labor Day  Third Monday in September
Columbus Day   Second Monday October
Veterans' Day    November 11th
Thanksgiving Day Fourth Thursday November       Thanksgiving Day Fourth
Thursday November
Xmas Day         December 25th                             Science Day        
December 31st

Comments:

New Year's Day:  Everybody likes it and observes it, so keep it as one of our
national holidays.

There currently are four holidays in honor of named individuals:  King,
Washington, Columbus and Jesus.  Most people don't care enough about any of
those four to do anything special regarding those people on the designated day,
so I propose replacing those holidays with ones that actually are meaningful to
most people.  If you are one of those who does care about any of those four,
you can celebrate it better by doing it yourself or with your own group instead
of competing against the crowd who is ignoring the day.

Valentine's Day:  The holiday of Love!  Let's make Love the greatest American
value by making Valentine's Day a national holiday.  Let's celebrate the love
that we have for that special gal or guy in your life.  While the religious
crazies around the world kill each other for not subscribing to their extreme
brand of religion, we Americans should set an example to the world of how we
love each other.  Making Valentine's Day a national holiday would do just
that.  I love you, Celeste!

Opening Day and Rob Sherman's Birthday on the first Monday in April:  Baseball
is America's national pastime.  I've always believed that Opening Day at
Wrigley Field (or, for those of you who think in black and white, Comiskey
Park) really ought to be a national holiday.  I'll bet Major League Baseball
and boys (and many girls, too) in schools across the country would support this
idea.  It would be a day to celebrate the beginning of the baseball season, the
beginning of the warm seasons of spring and summer and, of course, my birthday
of April 2nd (1953) for being the person who came up with the idea of making
Opening Day a national holiday and for coming up with the new roster of federal
holidays.

Mother's Day and Father's Day as federal holidays on the Mondays following the
traditional days:  By making them two-day holidays (unofficially Sunday and
officially Monday), more of us would be able to travel to see our mothers and
fathers on those three-day weekends.  We all have a mother and most of us have
a father, so we all can celebrate this holiday.

Combining Independence Day, Memorial Day and Veterans' Day:  The reality is
that most people ignore our veterans on those other two days and just use it as
a day off or a day to picnic, go to the beach or bar-be-que.  Combining those
other days with the Fourth of July would make it a widely recognized day for
patriotism of all sorts and, in fact, increase recognition of our veterans by
linking those days together. That's a good thing, so let's combine patriotism
and respect for our veterans all into one day for maximum impact and
recognition.

Children's Day:  We love our children but we don't yet respect them, enough, to
have a national holiday in their honor.  Before we ship them off to school for
another year in mid-August, let's have a final fling, just for them and in
their honor.  We love you, kids.  Now, go back to school and learn something.

Constitution Day and Labor Day combined:  Constitution Day (the birth of the
United States Constitution) is September 17th.  Did you even know?  Probably
not.  We are One Nation under a Constitution, not one nation under some
make-believe deity-parent.  It is because of our Constitution that we have the
labor freedoms and opportunities that we have in this country, so let's combine
together the celebration of those two days.  Another benefit of moving the
celebration closer to September 17th by doing the observance on the third
Monday of September is that we can effectively extend the celebration of summer
by two whole weeks.  Two extra weeks of summer.  Isn't that a great idea?

Thanksgiving is the day that we give thanks to all of our farmers for growing
all of our food so that we don't starve to death.  Everybody observes
Thanksgiving, so it is still relevant.  Therefore, we should keep it.  Besides,
making dramatic change is usually more acceptable if we keep some of the old
tradition.

Christmas:  Eliminating Christmas as a federal holiday is discussed in a
separate section near the top of this page.  It's time to move past the period
in which one person's religion gets special, favored treatment by the
government and everybody else is treated like Second Class citizens.  Christmas
only became a federal holiday in 1870.  150 years of that is enough.

Science Day on New Year's Eve.  This was also discussed in a separate section
near the top of this page.  Let's get smart on science instead of getting
stupid on religion.  Let's extend the holiday shopping season by a week and
include everybody in the celebration by making the last holiday of the year a
secular event instead of a religious one.

Send Rob Sherman to Congress and I'll sponsor legislation to make my
suggestions the new roster of federal holidays.  Send me e-mail with your
ideas, modifications or your own list of what you'd like to see as the roster
of ten federal holidays.  It needs to be ten because Labor would never agree to
a reduction in the current quantity of ten federal holidays and Management
would never agree to an increase in the number of federal holidays.  

 

                           NO E-MAIL DONATION NAGS!

One of the worst things about politicians is that they all seem to have
mastered the art of nagging you, incessantly, for campaign contributions.  They
will send you an e-mail with a Subject Line about a public policy issue, but
when you open the e-mail, you discover that the real reason they sent you the
e-mail was to manipulate your emotions into getting you to make a donation.

Once you make a donation to a candidate for public office, no matter how small,
you end up on their sucker list to receive non-stop e-mail donation nags.  The
public policy matter referred to in the Subject Line of their e-mail is
irrelevant.  All they really care about is squeezing you for money.

When I am in Washington as your United States Congressman, my focus will be on
legislating, not fund raising.  When I campaign for re-election, I won't need
to nag you for money because my accomplishments will speak for themselves, and
you can find out anything that you want to know about me or my position on
issues from my campaign web site.

Wouldn't it be great to have just one elected representative who is more
interested in legislating than fund raising?

Send Rob Sherman to Congress and I'll NEVER send you an e-mail donation nag. 
Sure, I hope that you donate to my campaign, and at the bottom of this web page
is information on how to do it, but you can be certain that any time I send you
an e-mail, it will be about a substantive matter and not a trick to manipulate
you into donating money to my campaign.

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                        

                             NO MORE INCOME TAXES

I will lower your taxes by replacing the income tax with a consumption tax. 
Here's why your taxes will be lower:

If you spend $20,000 in a year, you would pay a consumption tax (value added
tax or federal sales tax) on $20,000 worth of purchases.  If a rich person
spends half a million dollars in a year, he or she would pay consumption taxes
on $500,000 worth of purchases.  No wiggling out of it with exemptions.  No
evading taxes with accounting tricks or lawyer tricks, like shifting income or
profits overseas.  Since rich people could no longer evade the taxes that the
rest of us pay, this would ensure that the wealthy really do pay their fair
share and we pay less because we aren't paying their share, any more.

This would also end the nightmare and the con games related to filing income
tax returns.  The Cayman Islands have no income tax.  They use the value added
tax, instead, and have no problem getting everybody to pay their fair share in
a simple, understandable and fair way that doesn't consume huge quantities of
your time.  We should adopt their system.

Send Rob Sherman to Congress and I'll get rid of the income tax nightmare and
replace it with a much more fair national consumption tax that would cost
ordinary Americans like us far less in both money and time.

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                        

                    NO MORE ANIMAL ABUSE FOR ENTERTAINMENT

  • No more rodeos.

  • No more bull riding.

  • No more pigeon shoots.

Wow!  Where did that come from?  My friend, Steve Hindi of SHARK, Showing
Animals Respect and Kindness, has spent his entire adult lifetime investigating
and documenting how cowards use extremely painful electric prods, on the sneak
and supposedly in violation of rodeo guidelines, to get animals, large and
small, to "perform" involuntarily at rodeos.  Many animals ending up getting
injured, some fatally.  Local authorities generally refuse to do anything about
it because they are in bed with the rodeo promoters so that the local
government can get a piece of the action (meaning money -- pardon the pun).

Steve has shown how cute and adorable, but often dehydrated and emaciated,
birdies are launched into the sky at pigeon shoots so that psychopath
respectable citizens with rifles can blast them to death to gratify their
sick-o lusts, instead of using clay pigeons like civilized people do.

In bull riding, the bulls aren't bucking to throw the rider off because it's a
fun way to entertain children in the grandstands.  The bulls are bucking
because they are in agony.  According to Steve, a flank strap is wrapped around
the groin area of bulls to get them to buck.  While the flank strap is not
around their genitals, it is extremely unbearable and painful.  That is why
they buck, even if they are not shocked with a prod.  As soon as the torture
strap is released, the bulls go back to normal and walk away, but only to wait
to be tortured on another day.

Corporate sponsors pay big money to associate themselves with the animal
torture of both rodeos and bull riding.  Steve is doing everything that he can
to get people to stop buying the products of these corporate sponsors.

                                 [chokingcal]
                      From the Rodeo Cruelty page of the
                 Showing Animals Respect and Kindness web site

What kind of society are we?  Do we really need to torture and kill animals,
any more, to entertain ourselves and our children?

Send Rob Sherman to Congress and I'll end animal abuse for entertainment,
nationwide, by sponsoring federal laws to ban rodeos, pigeon shoots and bull
riding in this country.  Thousands of birds and animals are suffering and dying
for you to vote for me and for you to support my campaign as a volunteer or
with a donation.  They thank you, in advance, for doing so.

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                        

    ELECTION REFORM THAT YOU WOULD LOVE BUT THAT THE INCUMBENTS WOULD HATE

                         Compact Legislative Districts
 Same Number of Nominating Petition Signatures for All Candidates for the Same
                                    Office

I used to be opposed to term limits "because that's what elections are for." 
However, incumbents rig the elections by drawing electoral maps to remove their
opponents from their local districts.  They do this by creating an island
around an opponent's home and then drawing a long narrow strip of land from a
far away district to attach to the island that surrounds the home of the
opponent.  This puts the opponent in a far away district, where he isn't known,
to keep him from running at all, either against the local incumbent or in the
far away district where he is unknown.

Another scam that incumbents use to get re-elected is to block opponents from
getting on the ballot at all.  They do this by passing a law that requires
opponents to get 10 to 20 times as many signatures on their nominating
petitions as incumbents are required to get on theirs.  Even if an opponent can
somehow overcome this hurdle, he will have used up so much of his volunteers'
time and donors' money, just to get on the ballot, that the volunteers and
donors would have no time or money left for the actual campaign.  Meanwhile,
the incumbent uses almost all of his volunteer time and donations for
campaigning.

Elections, therefore, become a meaningless farce, which is exactly what the
incumbents have in mind.

Send Rob Sherman to Congress and I'll end gerrymandering of election districts
by sponsoring legislation that requires compact legislative districts
nationwide for all elections at the federal, state and local levels.  I'll also
sponsor a law that provides that all candidates for any office, anywhere in the
country,  need the same number of nominating petition signatures to get on the
ballot as any other candidate for that particular office in that particular
district, and a reasonable number of signatures at that.

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                        

                                  Term Limits
                          No Pensions for Legislators

I will sponsor Term Limits legislation that provides for no more than twelve
years serving in any one office.  We should have citizen legislatures,
including Congress, rather than professional politicians who serve forever just
to retain their power and ego.

I will sponsor legislation to ban legislative pensions.  If we had citizen
legislatures with a maximum of twelve years in any one office, we wouldn't need
legislative pensions.  If you want a pension, get a real job and save your own
money for retirement.  In that way, there'd be no reason to hang on to your
elected office forever.  Go to the legislature, whether federal, state or
local, present your ideas and then move on so that somebody else can present
his or her ideas.

Send Rob Sherman to Congress and I'll sponsor legislation to limit every
politician to no more than twelve years in a particular office, and no pension,
either.  If you want a pension, get a real job outside of elective office and
earn a pension that way.  Otherwise, save money from your official paycheck and
live off of that. 

These election reform issues have long been advocated by the Illinois Green
Party and many other progressive individuals and groups, without success.  Send
Rob Sherman to Congress and I'll make them happen.

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                        

                          BAN ELECTIONS DURING WINTER

Yet another scam that incumbents use to get re-elected is to hold elections
during the winter.  They do this to hold down the vote by making it as
inconvenient as possible to vote in the hopes that supporters of challengers
won't bother or won't be able to go to the polls.  Incumbents also do this to
make it as inconvenient as possible for challengers to get outside to campaign
and introduce their better ideas to prospective voters.

You and I feel that voting and campaigning should be made as convenient as
possible, rather than the other way around.  Therefore, I will sponsor
legislation to ban elections during winter.  Instead, elections should take
during the warm months.

Send Rob Sherman to Congress and I'll get a law passed that limits elections,
including Primary Elections, to take place only between May 15th and November
15th of each year.  That's six months.  That's plenty of time.  Let's hold our
Primary Elections on the first Tuesday in June and our Municipal Elections
either then or on the first Tuesday of November in odd numbered years.

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                        

                    BETTER O'HARE AIRPORT NOISE MITIGATION

I have a real and legitimate plan to reduce the impact of noise on neighbors of
O'Hare.  As a licensed pilot, I know what planes, the City of Chicago and the
FAA can do to spread the noise out.  Changing the runway setup isn't the way to
do it.  Runways are just driveways for airplanes to land on or take off from.

The solution is to significantly increase the array of designated air routes
that planes can use after they take off or before they land.  That would move
the planes over different regions to distribute the noise more effectively.

Send Rob Sherman to Congress and, as a licensed pilot, I'll get the job done to
mitigate O'Hare noise.

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                        

                   LAP AND SHOULDER SEAT BELTS ON ALL BUSES

It's crazy that we don't require lap and shoulder seat belts on school buses,
tour buses and motorcoach (Greyhound-type) buses.  So, why are seat belts
required, already?  That's because the industry, in an attempt to save money,
has mastered the art of lying to decision-makers about the need for seat
belts.  They do this by using trick statistics to falsely claim that buses are
the safest form of transportation.

The industry bases its claim of safety by comparing how many injuries and
deaths occur by mile traveled, rather than on how well their vehicles protect
passengers when there is a crash.  Every time there is a side-impact or
roll-over collision, everybody gets maimed or killed because we are all loose
in the box.

In reality, buses are the LEAST SAFE form of transportation on the roads,
today, because what really matters is how well passengers are protected when
there is a crash, not how many miles a vehicle typically travels between
crashes.  That's why we need seat belts on buses.

Send Rob Sherman to Congress and I'll sponsor legislation to require, once and
for all, lap and shoulder seat belts on all buses.

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                        

         NO MORE INTERNET SPYING BY CORPORATIONS ON WEB SITE VISITORS

Corporations are constantly sneaking spyware into your computer every time you
log onto their sites.  They do that so they can monitor your web surfing
activities.

Send Rob Sherman to Congress and I'll sponsor a federal law to ban corporate
spying on your internet usage.

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                        

                      SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE GLOBAL WARMING

I will aggressively fight global warming by listening to scientists on best
practices for reducing air pollution.  Global warming is real and getting
worse.

Send Rob Sherman to Congress and I'll reduce global warming by passing laws to
reduce the air pollution that causes it.

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                        

                    BAN RED LIGHT CAMERAS AND SPEED CAMERAS

Red light cameras and speed cameras are not about safety.  They are simply
revenue scam cameras whose primary goal is to enrich red light camera companies
and municipalities.  Any safety benefit is incidental and not the primary
purpose for having the cameras.  We don't need them.

Send Rob Sherman to Congress and I'll ban red light cameras and speed cameras,
nationwide.

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                        

      After I win the Primary Election on March 15, 2016, and the General
Election on November 8, 2016, I will go to Washington, D.C., to represent all
of the citizens of the 5th District, including all of you who do not have
sufficient clout to be treated fairly by government.

      Illinois wants and needs real leadership -- somebody who will go to
Washington, D.C., work with everybody and come up with reasonable solutions
that can achieve consensus so that we can move forward with our lives.  That
leader is Rob Sherman of the Green Party.

      The residents of Illinois are tired of the tricks and scams that
government and corporations use to unjustly cancel our rights, steal our money,
spy on us and, in many cases, take away our freedom, itself.  We don't have
government for the purpose of playing, "Gotcha."  We don't have government for
the purpose of enriching the friends, families and the campaign contributors of
elected officials.  We want government that will take only the money it needs
from us to provide a limited array of services, and then leave us alone.  Don't
tell us what opinion to have about religion.  Don't try to micro-manage our
lives and, certainly, don't tell us that we have to live our lives just like
the majority does and believe what the majority believes, or else we will have
our civil rights violated.

      If you want government that provides the services that it is supposed to,
at a reasonable cost, and then leaves us alone to live our lives in whatever
reasonable manner that each of us sees fit to do, then vote for Rob Sherman for
Congress on March 15, 2016.

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                        

      I will change federal law in ways to take the least amount of money
necessary from you, thus resulting in SUBSTANTIALLY LOWER TAXES for you.  To
demonstrate my true frugal nature and how careful that I will be with your
money, I designed and created this web site entirely by myself, using the same
web page authoring software that I've used for nearly two decades.  It fully
gets the job done at the least possible cost.  I fly my own airplane to avoid
the cost of airline fees, just as I create my own web pages to avoid the
unnecessary cost of paying for web authoring by somebody else.

                             [AirplaneMountHawley]
         Celeste and Rob Sherman at Mount Hawley Airport, Peoria, IL.
                       Click on photo for larger image.

If you wish to send in a campaign contribution, please use the link, below, or
make out a check to Rob Sherman for Congress and mail it to P. O. Box 7410,
Buffalo Grove, IL 60089-7410.  Thank you for your contribution.

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                                        

                           Rob Sherman for Congress
                  PO Box 7410, Buffalo Grove, IL  60089-7410
                              rob@robsherman.com
                                (847) 870-0700

                     Other current Rob Sherman web pages:
                             Rob Sherman Airplanes
                               Rob Sherman News
                               About Rob Sherman

Contributions or gifts to Rob Sherman for Congress are not tax deductible.  We
may accept contributions from an individual totaling up to $2,700 per
election.  Federal multi-candidate PACs may contribute up to $5,000 per
election.  Federal law prohibits contributions to Rob Sherman for Congress from
corporations, labor organizations and national banks;  from any person
contributing anther person's funds;  from foreign nationals who lack permanent
resident status;  and from federal government contractors.

                    Paid for and authorized by Rob Sherman

