Alex’s Heresies – embracing a physical reality

  • Interesting links
  • Popular Articles
  • Progressive Christianity Lecture Sep 2009
  • Site summary…

news, commentaries and articles dedicated to a non-dualistic view of the world

Science and the Objectivity Myth Part 1

June 28th, 2012 | Category: Comments

                      Atheist Presentation December 2011

Introduction

Without doubt, the sciences are held as the epitome of rational
knowledge-seeking in today’s industrialised and information world. Many
sociologists argue that science has effectively replaced the pre-Reformation
universal church as the central object of the public’s trust, respect, and awe,
with some diminishing in recent times only. So, like the devoted of some 500
years ago, today’s public with little or no knowledge of the inner workings of
science laboratories and organisations, effectively relies on blind faith in
the ‘goodness’ of scientific progress. Fortunately, we feel vindicated with the
regular flow of new technologies from smart mobile phones to 3D televisions.
Sociologist Steve Fuller goes further to suggest “that our continuing faith in
science in the face of its actual history is best understood as the secular
residue of a religiously inspired belief in Divine Providence.”[1]

However despite its pre-eminence, science has and always has had its critics
who seek to undermine claims of privileged access to universal knowledge about
reality. Although traceable back to even ancient times, such as disputes
between Plato, arguing for universal knowledge, and the Sophists, arguing for
the particularities and contingencies of experience, my interest are in more
recent times from the latter half of the twentieth century. Let us have a look
at some interesting events.

Short History of Science and Its Critics

Thomas Kuhn

In 1962 Thomas Kuhn, scientist turned historian and philosopher of science,
published his now-seminal work, The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, where
he compared scientific practices over time with the general perceptions of
scientific history. Controversially, he rejected popular historical narratives
of science as a progression of rationally-based knowledge, conducted by science
heroes. Kuhn described scientific history as, in fact, long periods of normal
or routine science, punctuated by major revolutions or shifts in our
understandings. The existing mindset or paradigm, to use Kuhn’s term, would
then be fully replaced, with the older one being seen as a quaint fiction. By
paradigm, Kuhn included such things as generalisations e.g. laws of motion;
metaphysical assumptions e.g. light as waves; values e.g. seeking simplicity;
and exemplars e.g. paradigmatic textbook or laboratory examples and practices.

His work showed that popular writings of science history are so often just
fictional reconstructions to explain today’s views and that past participants
are re-interpreted with today’s motivations. We rarely speak of Newton’s
alchemical research in the same breath as his work on physical motion, even
though he spent more time on the former than the later and, we have every
reason to believe Newton was similarly motivated for both types of research
areas. Discarding previous paradigms as non-science and re-interpreting past
people and events are often referred to the so-called ‘Whig’[2] history of
science.

Kuhn saw normal science as periods of steady progress or ‘puzzle-solving’
contained within well-defined and relatively unchallenged limits of the
prevailing paradigm. Research directions, experimental designs, theory
proposals, corporate and government funding, and research observations are
influenced by or, perhaps controlled by, the views of the time. Education and
socialisation of incoming scientists guaranteed the on-going support for the
prevailing views. Normal science is probably the stage we envisage when
thinking of its activities.

However, as experimental anomalies mount (no longer able to be ignored or
adjusted), some scientists, perhaps the less indoctrinated younger ones,
conceive of different paradigms. I should note that this may not be a rational
process as the underdetermination[3] principle often comes into play.   For
some time, both paradigms co-exist until the newer one becomes the new
orthodoxy. Scientists continuing to support the previous paradigm then become
marginalised and separated from future funding. Even though Kuhn’s specific
arguments have less force today, his overall observations are still seen as
highly influential.

Another serious implication of Kuhn’s description of scientific history is that
paradigms are incommensurable. Like philosopher Paul Feyerabend[4] some ten
years before,[5] Kuhn claimed that the problems, concepts, and methods of one
paradigm would seem incomprehensible when viewed from another. Einstein’s
universe would seem incomprehensible in Newtonian terms. One outcome of this,
mentioned previously, is to write fictitious scientific histories and to
ascribe modern motives from the perspective of the current paradigm. As
sociology lecturer, Sergio Sismondo says:  “Isaac Newton’s physics looks
striking modern when rewritten for today’s textbooks, but looks much less so in
its originally published form, even less so when the connections between it and
Newton’s religious and alchemical research are drawn.”[6]

A more serious attack from incommensurability is our inability to have any
neutral language that can compare the effectiveness of different paradigms. If
this is true, then we have no rational means, no reasoned way, of justifying
the replacement of one paradigm with another. If it can be a matter of faith
only, this is a serious indictment of the claim that science is a rational
process. A useful insight from Ludwig Wittgenstein, later post-modernists, and
language-games, is participants within a paradigm will “…create their own
vocabularies by giving special meanings to ordinary terms and phrases.”[7]

Even though the most extreme implications of incommensurability have received
little general support and even from Kuhn’s own later writings, the
implications continue to be debated amongst philosophers, sociologists, and
scientists. It may be that incommensurability is better characterised as
incomplete communication or problems with translation between paradigms. In
fact, given that a paradigm will usually share the resources – measuring
equipment, experimental results, and the like – with the previous one at least
during transition, does suggest the some capacity to relate, even if a common
observations and measurements are recast into very different interpretations.

Finally, incommensurability may operate at a deeper, non-rational psychological
level, similar to the so-called tacit knowledge acquisition of exemplars
mention previously as a part of a paradigm. Philosopher Alexander Bird argues
this perspective in his paper ‘Incommensurability Naturalized’[8]. He develops
a psychological view:

The key idea in what follows is that we all use in thinking various cognitive
capacities and structures that have the following features: (i) they cannot be
reduced to general, formal rules of reasoning (e.g. formal logic); (ii) their
existence and the mechanism of their employment are typically unconscious, so
that they are deployed in a manner that is akin to intuition—what I call a
semi-intuitive manner; (iii) they are often acquired as a matter of practice
and repeated exposure and practice, so that they have the character of skills.
The sorts of skill or capacity I am referring to here include: mental schemata,
analogical thinking, pattern recognition, quasi-intuitive inference.

Social History of the Pap Smear

In 1998 Monica Casper and Adele Clarke published a paper of the social history
of the Pap Smear. Finally, another interesting example of the interdependency
of social and empirical aspects of science is the history of the Pap smear, as
described by a research paper by Monica Casper and Adele Clarke[9]. Over the
twentieth century the Pap smear moved from general rejection by scientists as
expensive and unreliable to almost a mandatory part of women’s health and that
had more to do with social changes than with science. The changes came from an
increase of women’s health priorities; use of cheaper female technicians to
reduce processing costs; automation of record-keeping enabling large scale
testing and analysis; and greater localisation and targeting of benchmarks
rather using against strictly universal measures. Until very recently the
science has not changed since its early rejections as unreliable.[10]

 

Biomedical Research Today – An Insider View

In June 2011, John Ioannidis, professor of medicine at Stanford University,
wrote an opinion piece in Scientific American[11]provocatively titled An
Epidemic of False Claims, on the endemic problems with today’s biomedical
research. Ioannidis identified serious flaws in research practices, which he
traces to meeting the public’s ever-increasing expectations; fragmentation of
exponentially increasing research programs; and researcher conflicts of
interest with meeting the demands of lucrative corporate funding and achieving
personal successes through highly-visible publishing. This is all under the
control of “the oligopoly of high-impact journals [that] also  …[have]…  a
distorting effect on funding, academic careers and market shares”.

John Ioannidis’s observations belie simple claims of scientific objectivity.
Contrary to the objectivist view of science, he identifies the following
problems: (1) claims based on single studies, with replication being done only
“sparingly and haphazardly”; (2) withholding research data for competitive
financial reasons and so preventing replication studies; (3) selectively
reporting research results for maximum impact; and (4) deliberately designing
and reporting studies to produce most favourable outcomes for research and, by
implication, for the financial backers.

Late 20^th century – Three Separate Attacks

(1)    from conservative Christians who sought to challenge evolution as the
explanation for the diversity of life on our planet. Intelligent Design, a
repackaged version of Creationism, was promoted as an alternate scientific
explanation that should be taught in the public school biology classes. The
Kitzmiller vs Dover trial was a famous rejection of that attempt by Judge
Jones.

(2)    From the socialist left who claimed that science and scientists have
become pawns of large industrial and military organisations, the so-called
industrial-military complexes. Comment of book of science changes?

(3)    From a broad, disparate group of academics and intellectuals –
sociologists, literary theorists, and some philosophers – who challenged even
the possibility of universal knowledge.  They suggested that the sciences or
historical research or capitalism (through globalisation) or religions for that
matter are telling their stories or narratives, which Lyotard famously called
‘Grand Narratives’.  And, most importantly, there are alternative narratives,
equally valid. Though having differing agendas, these critics saw these stories
as essentially political or ideological. Science was portrayed as a Western
ideological tool to colonise other cultures. This is the famous or perhaps
infamous Post Modernism. It reached its academic Zenith in the late 20^th
century. Although waned now, our society has absorbed many of its ideas with
the Internet science deniers and sceptics.


━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[1] Steve Fuller, Science, Acumen Publishing Limited, Durham, 2010, p. 1.

[2] ‘The British historian Herbert Butterfield coined the term “Whig history”
in his small but influential book The Whig Interpretation of History (1931). It
takes its name from the British Whigs, advocates of the power of Parliament,
who opposed the Tories, advocates of the power of the King. The term has been
applied widely in historical disciplines outside of British history (the
history of science, for example) to criticize any teleological or
goal-directed, hero-based, and trans-historical narrative.’ Quoted from
Wikipedia http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whig_history

[3] Scientists often seek to explain empirical data with competing hypotheses.
Quite commonly, many are equally capable of doing so and therefore are said to
be underdetermined by the evidence. And, as a result, scientists have no
logical way of conclusively selecting one over another.  Scientists must resort
to other criteria.

[4] Feyerabend was a critic of the single scientific method claim. http://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_Feyerabend

[5] “Although Feyerabend first used the term ‘incommensurable’ to describe
successive fundamental scientific theories in 1962, he had developed his notion
of the incommensurability of scientific theories more than ten years prior to
the appearance of Kuhn’s Structure of Scientific Revolutions (1962).” Eric
Oberheim and Paul Hoyningen-Huene , “The Incommensurability of Scientific
Theories“, The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2010 Edition), Edward
N. Zalta (ed.), http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2010/entries/
incommensurability/

[6] Sergio Sismondo, An Introduction to Science and Technology Studies 2^nd
Edn., Blackwell Publishing Ltd, West Sussex,  2101, p.17

[7] See discussion at http://postmoderntherapies.com/word.html

[8] “Incommensurability Naturalized” in Rethinking Scientific Change and Theory
Comparison (Boston Studies in the Philosophy of Science 255, eds LÃna Soler,
Howard Sankey, and Paul Hoyningen-Huene) Dordrecht: Spinger (2007) 21–39. http:
//web.mac.com/alexander.bird/research/papers/Incommensurability-naturalized.pdf

[9] Monica J. Casper and Adele E. Clarke, Making the pap smear into the ‘right
tool’ for the job: Cervical cancer screening in the USA, circa 1940-95, Social
Studies of Science 28: 255-90, 1998

[10] Recent technical improvements to improve the pap smear do not affect the
overall argument that the acceptance of the pap smear are from social changes
rather than technical ones. Dorothy L. Rosenthal discusses recent technical
improvements in: Dorothy L. Rosenthal, Automation and the Endangered Future of
the Pap Test,

JNCI J Natl Cancer Inst (1998) 90(10): 738-749 doi:10.1093/jnci/90.10.738 http:
//jnci.oxfordjournals.org/content/90/10/738.full

[11] John P. A. Ioannidis, An Epidemic of False Claims, Scientific American,
June 2011, p. 8

No comments

Course: GOD IN TODAY’S SOCIETY CAE Melbourne from 7 Aug

June 28th, 2012 | Category: CAE Course Material,CAE-God,Courses

I’m running a new course at Centre for Adult Education, CBD Melbourne 7 Aug to
4 Sep 2012:

GOD IN TODAY’S SOCIETY

We discuss different concepts of God from the interventionist, personal God to
the good spirit to nature. Bookings are coming in fast, so check and book at
the CAE site:

http://www.cae.edu.au/web/?course=DNX100

Alex McCullie

No comments

Pursuing the Humanist Vision (Presentation)

May 02nd, 2011 | Category: Comments

This is the transcript of a presentation I gave to the Annual Humanist
Convention in Australia.

——————————————————————–

Thank you for allowing me to present at the 46th Annual Humanist Convention.
It’s certainly a great pleasure to be here.

I call myself a naturalist, who, like secular humanists, most other
naturalists, and many atheists, share a common belief in the dignity of people
to live self-determined and fulfilled lives, unencumbered by repressive
superstitious traditions. All ideologies – both religious and political –
should be open to criticism and, potentially, open to rejection. And,
ultimately, I see a free secular society, especially with a strong
publicly-funded non-religious education system, as being fundamental to
achieving the humanist vision.

Humanist Scorecard

Let’s have a look at the humanist scorecard around the world. Some events can
give us hope.  Three recent examples come to mind. Firstly, ordinary citizens
throughout the Middle East and North Africa are risking their lives to
challenge the authority of their brutal, repressive, and often theocratic,
regimes. These are essentially secular – not religious – movements of all age
groups, especially younger ones, who seem to be, ironically, inspired or
energised by being part of the ‘Facebook’ generation, the social networking of
the Internet. I say ‘ironical’ as the Internet exemplifies today’s
post-modernist ethos often portrayed at odds with the universal values of
humanism; a theme I’d like to return to shortly.

Secondly, Nigeria has a notorious history of sectarian and tribal violence
between the Islamic north and the Christian south. Both religious groups have
sought to dominate, convert, and kill one another. However Nigerians have just
conducted peaceful and fair elections under international monitoring where,
again, ordinary Nigerians queued for hours to express self-determination at the
ballot-boxes. Many even stayed at those polling centres to ensure their votes
were counted legitimately. Unfortunately there is a sad postscript to this
story. That peace ended with riots in northern Nigeria after the election of
southern Christian, Goodluck Jonathan. 200 people were killed as a result. Umar
Marigar of the Red Cross told the BBC that “The violent protests turn from
political into ethno-religious crisis. As such, people might like to engage in
retaliatory attacks. This is what we are always afraid of.”[1]

And, thirdly, praise them or condemn them. Wikileaks and Julian Assange, and
other whistle-blowers valuably expose the often self-righteous secrecy of
governments and organisations, as they try to implement anti-humanist values
and actions in the name of the ‘greater-good’. I’m sure you are familiar with
many examples – US and its allies secretly rendering detained suspects between
countries to avoid legal restrictions on interrogations; the Roman Catholic
Church covering up extensive child abuse by its office bearers; and, of course,
extensive lying over the search for Iraq’s famous, and necessarily illusive,
weapons of mass destruction. Truth, as always, is the first casualty with
people being its actual victims. Whistle-blowers are one way, though perhaps
not the best, of monitoring these organisations.

So, despite some positive stories, there is much work to be done by humanists.
Conservative US state legislators are enacting laws to effectively restrict
abortions, undermining the ‘Row v Wade’ (1973) Supreme Court decision.

Some states are making it exponentially more difficult, both financially and
psychologically, for a woman to have an abortion. In South Dakota, a woman now
has to wait at least 72 hours after seeking an abortion to have the actual
procedure and is legally required to obtain counselling from a “crisis
pregnancy center” — which are unregulated by the state and have the explicit
goal of talking women out of abortions — before having the procedure.[2]

 

Just recently the Republicans attempted to cut US Federal funding for family
planning programs as part of their rejection of budget funding. Ultimately
President Obama held his ground on such a move. So conservative forces will use
every opportunity to undermine or remove society’s humanist policies that
conflict with their own particular sets of values. Humanists need to be
vigilant in protecting and extending humanist values embedded in our secular
society.

In Pakistan, five out of six men charged over the group rape of Mukhtaran Mai
in 2002 were released by Pakistan’s Supreme Court. The sixth man was convicted
and sentenced to death, later commuted to jail time. The rape was ordered by
village elders after Mai’s brother was accused of having illicit relations with
a woman from a rival clan.  Mai claimed that 14 men were actually involved. As
the Guardian reports (21 Apr 2011):

The supreme court was heavily criticised by human rights groups for the
verdict, which they said put the safety of all Pakistani women at risk. Rape,
“honour killings” and other crimes against women in Pakistan are routinely
poorly investigated by police and go unpunished by the courts.[3]

Finally, I’m sure you are all familiar with various attempts to introduce
Sharia law for Muslims living within secular societies. The fear is that our
emphasis on cultural pluralism offers an opening for Sharia law, even in
limited ways, and thereby compromise hard-won human freedoms. According to
Civitas (Institute for the Study of Civil Society in the UK), there are 85
Sharia courts operating in Britain, of which 12 operate within the British
legal system. In the report “Sharia Law or ‘One Law For All?”’[4], Civitas
expressed three concerns: (1) voluntary arbitration seems impossible with the
community intimidation of women; (2) Sharia law does not treat women equally;
and (3) religious guidance depends on fear of God and desire to be in good
standing within the community. However, we also need to be careful how we apply
secular laws to insular communities so to protect the very people that concern
us and not cause greater hardships. This is always a dilemma.

Humanist Future

Now let’s look ahead, and I’d like to mention two challenges to humanism.
Firstly, we are experiencing an increase of religious faith world-wide and,
more concerning, from fundamentalist, Pentecostal, and charismatic movements,
which demand follower conformity and submission often conflicting with humanist
values. According to sociologist, Peter Berger, ‘As one looks over the
contemporary world, it’s not secularization that one sees, but an enormous
explosion of passionate religious movements.’[5]

We can expect to see religious faiths playing a greater, not lesser, role in
international affairs. In 1990 Islamic countries declared the Cairo Declaration
on Human Rights in Islam as an alternative to the UN’s declaration of human
rights. They sought to enshrine internationally Sharia law as the basis for
Islamic human rights. Also, even though there is an increase in electoral
democracies world-wide – a good thing – we see faith-dominated nations
implementing public laws and administrative systems contrary to Western
humanist values. The criminality of homosexuality and apostasy in Malaysia and
selective application of women’s rights in Pakistan are some examples.

Another concern is the rise of those ‘passionate’ religious groups within
Western societies, especially in the US and Europe. Through increased migration
and higher birth rates sectarian groups seek legal exemptions or special
treatment (such as Sharia courts, mentioned previously) while larger
conservative groups seek public policy changes (such as restricting abortions
and divorces and diluting science education that conflicts with religious
faith). These trends are worrying as they potentially threaten the
Enlightenment ideal of providing reason-based equality and fairness for all
citizens.

The second challenge to humanism is the replacement of the rational certitudes
of secularism with the pluralism and uncertainties of a post-secular world, a
world where personal truths and realities dominate. Post-modernism may had its
academic zenith in the late 20^th century, when it was cool to quote
incomprehensible Foucault, Derrida, or Lyotard, but its effects are strongly
felt today with the blurring of right and wrong; truth and fiction; and past,
present, and future times, especially in the virtual worlds of television, the
Internet, and of course the arts. [As an aside, one of my pet peeves with the
History Channel on FoxTel cable television is its indiscriminate mixing of
historical analyses, retelling of myths (especially biblical ones), and wild
speculations with little discussion of the historical support for these
stories.] So for post-secularists, ‘observation’ has become ‘construction’ and
‘knowledge’ has become ‘interpretation’.

The rationale of humanism, like that of the sciences and most religions, is
founded on the belief in a single truth with a capital ‘T’ and in a single
reality with a capital ‘R’. And, as inheritors of the Enlightenment, humanists
and scientists both hold reason as central to the quest for human
understanding. Unfortunately, such claims are no longer as credible today and
are often met with ‘that may be true for you, but…’. So humanists need to find
new ways of presenting their messages in attractive rather than just logical
ways in this post-secular reality.

So, finally, let me offer some gratuitous advice before discussion time. A.C.
Grayling famously said that the only form of intolerance acceptable in a
tolerant society is towards ‘intolerance’ itself. We recognise this
contradiction as a necessary truth. Similarly surprising, I would argue that
rational humanists need to evangelise – to proclaim the ‘good news’ of humanism
– so to impassion today’s post-secularists against destructive religious and
political polemics on one hand and misguided tolerance on the other. As David
Hume said some 300 years ago, ‘Reason is, and ought only to be, the slave of
the passions, and can never pretend to any other office than to serve and obey
them’[6], so humanists go out there and be very passionate.

Thank you.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
[1] http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/mobile/world-africa-13140762

[2] Huffington Post 14 Apr 2011 http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/04/14/
states-introducing-unprec_n_849251.html

[3] http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2011/apr/21/
pakistan-gang-rape-mukhtaran-mai

[4] http://www.civitas.org.uk/pdf/ShariaLawOrOneLawForAll.pdf

[5] P. Berger & A. Zijderveld, In Praise of Doubt (New York: HarperCollins,
2009) p. 4.

[6] D. Hume, Treatise of Human Nature (1739-40)  II.iii.3/415

No comments

Comment: recommended readings on Morality

March 21st, 2011 | Category: CAE Course Material

Philosophy

  • Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy: http://plato.stanford.edu/ (a massive
    online site of academic articles on most philosophical topics)
  • Templeton foundation (Christian organisation set up to promote discussion
    between science and religion):  Does moral action depend on reasoning? 
    (series of responses) http://www.templeton.org/reason/
  • BBC guide to the ethics associated with abortion: http://www.bbc.co.uk/
    ethics/abortion/
  • Teach Yourself Understand Philosophy (Teach Yourself – General) (Paperback)
    gentle introduction to philosophy:  http://www.bookdepository.co.uk/book/
    9781444104998/Teach-Yourself-Understand-Philosophy
  • Teach Yourself Understand Ethics (Teach Yourself – General) (Paperback) By
    (author) Mel Thompson another good intro by same author as one above. http:
    //www.bookdepository.co.uk/book/9781444103519/
    Teach-Yourself-Understand-Ethics

 

Religion

  • Godless Morality – Peter Singer and Marc Hauser: http://www.utilitarian.net
    /singer/by/200601–.htm
  • Relationship that leads to life On evangelical take on Christian morality
    in Christianity Today online magazine: http://www.christianitytoday.com/ct/
    2010/august/14.48.html
  • Abortion in Jewish Law: http://www.aish.com/ci/sam/48954946.html
  • BBC summary of Judaism and abortion: http://www.bbc.co.uk/religion/
    religions/judaism/jewishethics/abortion_1.shtml

 

Psychology

  • Steven Pinker, NYT article Moral Instinct, 13-Jan-2008: http://
    www.nytimes.com/2008/01/13/magazine/13Psychology-t.html?_r=1&adxnnl=1&
    adxnnlx=1300665621-B8C05uYqKjPkma1+MLIkIw
  • Does evolution explain human nature? http://www.templeton.org/evolution/
    see comments re Templeton above.
  • Does science make belief in God obsolete? http://www.templeton.org/belief/
    (see above)
  • Numerous papers by Jonathan Haidt (available on request): http://
    people.virginia.edu/~jdh6n/publications.html

No comments

Blog: Natural Philosophy of Life

February 18th, 2011 | Category: Comments,Links

Overview as quoted from the site (http://www.geopolitics.us/)

Natural Philosophy

The natural philosophy of life offers a simple, elegant, and powerful
alternative to religious dogma. This philosophy has a firm foundation in
nature, science, and reason. It is centered on the core values of honesty,
generosity, equality, and freedom.
No comments

News: Seminar Feb 2011 Melbourne – alternatives to dogmatic atheism

January 12th, 2011 | Category: Courses,News

Hegel Summer School 2011:

The New Atheism: Just another Dogma?

Saturday, February 12th 2011

Oases/Borderlands, 2 Minona Street, Hawthorn

10.00 – 5.00, followed by drinks
This year’s speakers and topics are:

Tamas Pataki: „The New Atheism: Just Another Dogma?“

Cameron Shingleton: „Overkill: Richard Dawkins and The Limits of Pop-Scientific
Atheism“

Petra Brown: „Messianic Atheism: Giving the Golden Calf a Good Roasting“

Stephen Stuart: „Dangerous beliefs: Zealotry, Wisdom and Public Health“

The „new Atheists“, notably Christopher Hitchins and Richard Dawkins, have been
getting a lot of media time, setting up a choice between narrow-minded and
dogmatic atheism versus religious faith. This is a false dichotomy. Belief in
God is consistent with a perfectly rational materialism, just as not believing
in God does not necessarily imply a dogmatic assertion of the non-existence of
God.

Our four speakers explore non-Deist alternatives to the dogmatic brand of
Atheism now being promoted and expose the questionable foundations of the New
Atheists. The need for a third way, over and above religious tolerance is
important if a genuinely humanist way of life is to be possible in modern
conditions.

For more detail and further program and abstract updates go to:

http://ethicalpolitics.org/seminars/hss2011.htm

The Hegel Summer School invites you to a day of fruitful philosophical
discussion in a collegial environment. The cost will normally be AUD 30 but we
can offer a concession rate of AUD 20. Lunch and tea/coffee included.
Please pay in cash on the day and RSVP (including your dietary requirements) by
COB on Tuesday, 8th of February 2011 to Lea Campbell on Lea.Campbell@gmx.net

No comments

News: Richard Dawkins Celebrates 400 years of King James Bible

January 04th, 2011 | Category: News

KJB was first printed in 1611 and this is the 400th year. Richard Dawkins,
outspoken religious critic, assists with the celebrations as he, like many of
us, recognise the major literary influence of the 1611 Bible.

http://www.kingjamesbibletrust.org/news/2010/02/19/
richard-dawkins-lends-his-support-to-the-king-james-bible-trust

Alex McCullie

No comments

News: Three new CAE courses Feb-Apr 2011 – Historical Jesus, Views of Morality,
and World-views

January 04th, 2011 | Category: Courses

I’m running three courses Feb to Apr this year at the Centre for Adult
Education in Melbourne.

Centre for Adult Education: Melbourne
Content

MAKING SENSE OF THE WORLD – 4 World-views

What is Reality?
We shall examine two competing ways of understanding reality. Naturalism with
its strictly physical world-view and traditional Christianity with a divine
creator and organiser. Since the 18th Century Enlightenment, western society
has moved away from traditional Christian understandings to a more naturalistic
view of existence. We shall compare the two views.

What is Truth?
Modernism (there are universally reasoned truth) and Post-modernism (we can
have personal truths only) also compete with different explanations on the
status of knowledge and truth. This conflict lead to the (in) famous science
and history wars of the late 20th century.

5 sessions:
Tuesdays 6.00PM-7.30PM: 19/04/11, 03/05/11 to 24/05/11

Venue: CAE Building B – 253 Flinders Ln, Melbourne

Click to book

—————————————————–
Centre for Adult Education, Melbourne

SEARCHING FOR THE HISTORICAL JESUS
Explore the historical Jesus, separate from the figure of devotion. In doing
so, review the use of Christian and non-Christian sources and treatment of
miracle claims, society, political and religion of early first century Israel
and Middle East, analysing the primary source – the Gospels, review of research
from the past 300 years, how Jesus, the man, is profiled by today’s scholars.

Class details
5 sessions:
Tuesdays 6.00PM-7.30PM: 22/02/11 to 22/03/11

Venue: CAE Building B – 253 Flinders Ln, Melbourne

Click to book
——————————————————
Centre for Adult Education: Melbourne

BEING GOOD: 3 VIEWS OF MORALITY
We think about moral issues every day. Newspapers, television programs, and
internet web-sites tell us what is immoral and moral.

Class details
5 sessions:
Tuesdays 7.30PM-9.00PM: 22/02/11 to 22/03/11

Venue: CAE Building B – 253 Flinders Ln, Melbourne

Content
We explore two traditional foundations of Western moral attitudes – traditional
Religious beliefs and Philosophical thinking – with the more-recent and
challenging research of Moral Psychology and ask the questions, does morality
exist? Can there be universal moral rules? How do we know right from wrong?
What is evil? How does culture influence morality?

Click to book

No comments

Comment: Eradicating the free-will myth – the ‘always’ illusive dream

January 02nd, 2011 | Category: Comments

Like most naturalists, I consider the concept of human free-will, ability to
rationally choose one action over another independent of or inspite of prior
causes, as one of the last great myths to which most people subscribe.

I grew up in a very secular family with a ‘what is the evidence’ mentality. So
seeing ourselves as an intrinsic part of the physical world has always been an
obvious approach to life. Moreover, overlaying a supramundane existence on that
physical world that happens to address coincidentally human needs seemed all to
fanciful to be plausible. Over the years of studying and lecturing in
philosophy, religion, and science (with some history thrown in), I have
softened my criticisms of those who actually believe in the supramundane. My
position isn’t quite as ‘obvious’, as I have always assumed.

Free-will is another intrenched example for all of us. We all know the dilemma.
Our best conception of the world seems to be that of direct observation guided
by subsequent reasoning, the methods of the (natural) sciences. The sciences
offer our best hope of disassociating our wishes and desires from the
understandings of the world about us, the ‘It’ in Martin Buber’s terms.
Similarly ’cause and effect’ is a model that well explains our experiences in
that world. Only experimental results in Quantum Physics have presented
dilemmas for the cause and effect model.

However our scientific approach with its causes and effects seems most
unsatisfactory and unintuitive when it comes to our ‘I’ world – the potentially
imaginary world of free-will, self, consciousness, love, and so on. Take
free-will. Despite my lifetime of naturalism (even before knowing the term), I
still get mad at rude drivers, discourteous waiters, violent people, and mass
murders who presumably had not chosen to do the things they did. And to further
complicate things I imagine I didn’t choose to get mad either. Their rudeness
and violence and my reactions were the inevitable results of prior causes and
none of us are immediately responsible for these acts (though perhaps partially
for our specific makeups that contributed to these acts). My last bracketed
comment asks whether our prior thoughts can be part of the causal mix for
future actions. This thought is consistent with ‘us as conscious riders of our
subconscious elephants’ analogy used by moral psychologist Jonathan Haidt,
University of Virginia. Either way most people out there will give me
short-shift, if I put this ‘not responsible’ argument, especially for the
committers of heinous crimes. Perhaps my audience was caused to do so.

So I see a disconnect between abstract and interesting discussions of free-will
by philosophers and the assumed free-will practice on the ground. Fianally I’m
probably fortunate, at least compared to fellow travellers in the US, that our
justice system in Australia seems less driven by retributive punishment, which
would be so offensive to the non-free-willers. We are not into consecutive 99
year jail terms for serious offenders, for example, or for jail time for
relatively minor offences. This may not always be so if the conservatives have
their way here.

Alex McCullie

No comments

Comment: Atheism & Secular Religions

November 04th, 2010 | Category: Comments
In practice atheism is the rejection of the belief in society’s dominant form
of god or gods. This could be strong (rejection) or weak (disbelief). Even
early Christians were accused of atheism for rejecting the gods of Rome and
Socrates for rejecting the gods of Athens. For most Western atheists today it
is rejecting some form of Christian theism.

Many atheists go further. They extend the rejection to all supernatural or
immaterial claims of ghosts, saints, afterlives, out-of-body-experiences, and
miracles. This rejection approaches the world-view of naturalism, where all
human experiences are seen as coming from strictly physical causes, causes as
identified by the empirically-based sciences. So atheism itself is a relatively
narrow ontological claim, a claim of no god or gods. It is not  that of a
comprehensive world-view like naturalism or most religious traditions. Whether
or not atheists support naturalism, I would like to think that they embrace the
ideals of scientific enquiry. Moderate scepticism, open questioning,
fair-minded analysis, and willingness to forgo previous beliefs in light of new
experiences are worthwhile aims for any intellectual enquiry.

Most atheists would see religious beliefs and practices as supporting and
promoting deluded supernatural claims. Membership in religious communities may
offer social benefits, but they are founded on deluded claims, wishful beliefs
ahead of rational thought. However the secular versions of religions, such as
secular Buddhism and secular Judaism, create dilemmas for atheist and believers
alike. How can someone be an atheist religionist?

The on-line atheist forum, Atheist Nexus, has been buzzing with discussion on
the status of secular Buddhists. As Buddhists, they have typically have no
Jewish-, Christian-, or Islamic-style personal God. The secular versions reject
reincarnation and limit Karma to the everyday Western understanding of this
life only. A supporter of secular Buddhism claimed that the Atheist Foundation
of Australia had unreasonably extended its definition of atheism (beyond those
commonly accepted) to exclude the secular versions of religions. He argued that
atheism should be restricted to the original etymology of atheism, without
(‘a’) god (‘theism’). This is interesting but is not necessarily a valid
argument for today’s usage, the so-called etymological fallacy. A secular
Buddhist or a secular Jew therefore would have just as much right to ascribe to
atheism as any non-religious person. So does an active membership in any
religious community automatically preclude someone from being an atheist?

Most religious practices involve worship. Buddhists, secular or otherwise, come
close to worshipping Buddha. Atheists usually would not revere Darwin, Bacon,
or Dawkins in the same way, admire yes but worship no. Worship, a common
feature of most religions, (1. To honor and love as a deity; 2. To regard with
ardent or adoring esteem or devotion, according to http://
www.thefreedictionary.com/worship) seems something as an antithesis to atheism,
and something that probably does preclude active secular religious people from,
at least, a commonly-held broad sense of atheism.

Alex McCullie

No comments

Next Page >>

Search this site

[                    ] [Submit]
Share this blog

Bookmark and Share
H. L. Mencken Quotation

Complex problems have simple, easy to understand, wrong answers.
Contact me

Useful articles

list of useful articles on Alex's Heresies
Quote to ponder

Book: Australian Book of Atheism published December 2010

"The Australian Book of Atheism aims to change that, gathering together an
impressive collection of essays from pre-eminent Australian atheist,
rationalist, secular, humanist, and skeptic thinkers, many of whom participated
in the 2010 Global Atheist Convention in Melbourne." [from the publisher Scribe
Publications] Also I'm one of the contributors with an article on Progressive
Christianity. Alex McCullie
Course 2011: Making Sense of the World

Centre for Adult Education: Melbourne Content What is Reality? We shall examine
two competing ways of understanding reality. Naturalism with its strictly
physical world-view and traditional Christianity with a divine creator and
organiser. Since the 18th Century Enlightenment, western society has moved away
from traditional Christian understandings to a more naturalistic view of
existence. We shall compare the two views. What is Truth? Modernism (there are
universally reasoned truth) and Post-modernism (we can have personal truths
only) also compete with different explanations on the status of knowledge and
truth. This conflict lead to the (in) famous science and history wars of the
late 20th century. 5 sessions: Tuesdays 6.00PM-7.30PM: 17/05/11 to 14/06/11
Venue: CAE Building B - 253 Flinders Ln, Melbourne Click to book
Course 2011: Being Good – 3 Views of Morality

Centre for Adult Education: Melbourne BEING GOOD: 3 VIEWS OF MORALITY We think
about moral issues every day. Newspapers, television programs, and internet
web-sites tell us what is immoral and moral. Class details 5 sessions: Tuesdays
7.30PM-9.00PM: 22/02/11 to 22/03/11 Venue: CAE Building B - 253 Flinders Ln,
Melbourne Content We explore two traditional foundations of Western moral
attitudes - traditional Religious beliefs and Philosophical thinking - with the
more-recent and challenging research of Moral Psychology and ask the questions,
does morality exist? Can there be universal moral rules? How do we know right
from wrong? What is evil? How does culture influence morality? Click to book
Presentation: Science – the Quest for Objectivity July 2011

Talk proposed for July 2011 for Sofia in Melbourne, where I'll question that
science is simply the business for finding objective truths.
Natural Philosophy of Life – Blog

Click to read Natural Philosophy The natural philosophy of life offers a
simple, elegant, and powerful alternative to religious dogma. This philosophy
has a firm foundation in nature, science, and reason. It is centered on the
core values of honesty, generosity, equality, and freedom. (quoted from the
site)
Categories

  • Articles
  • Bible knowledge
  • Books
  • CAE Course Material
  • CAE-God
  • Comments
  • Courses
  • Downloads
  • Events
  • Humour
  • Links
  • Links – video
  • News
  • People
  • Uncategorized

Recent Posts

  • Science and the Objectivity Myth Part 1
  • Course: GOD IN TODAY’S SOCIETY CAE Melbourne from 7 Aug
  • Pursuing the Humanist Vision (Presentation)
  • Comment: recommended readings on Morality
  • Blog: Natural Philosophy of Life

Tags

agnosticism atheism atheists belief beliefs bible blog book brain CAE Catholic
Christian Christianity Christmas church Courses creationism education evil
evolution faith Film free-will god history Homosexual humanism Humour islam
Jesus morality naturalism News People Pew philosophy politics Pope religion
science secular secularism US video women
Google Friend Connect

RSS Google news – atheism

  • Atheist Launches New Court Battle to Remove God From U.S. Currency -
    Charisma News
    Charisma NewsAtheist Launches New Court Battle to Remove God From U.S.
    CurrencyCharisma News"In God We Trust" on U.S. currency violates "the
    constitutional rights" of the country's atheist population, and must be
    removed, according to a new lawsuit. "The 'In G-d We Trust' phrase has
    continued to be a tool used to perpe […]
  • David Bowie, Dead at 69, Was “Almost an Atheist” - Patheos (blog)
    Patheos (blog)David Bowie, Dead at 69, Was “Almost an Atheist”Patheos
    (blog)David Bowie, Dead at 69, Was “Almost an Atheist”. January 11, 2016 by
    Tracey Moody Leave a ... It's because I'm not quite an atheist and it
    worries me. There's that little bit that holds on: “Well, I'm almost an
    atheist. Give me a couple of months ...David Bowie […]
  • Professional Atheist Dawkins Says Christianity 'Bulwark Against Something
    Worse' - Breitbart News
    Breitbart NewsProfessional Atheist Dawkins Says Christianity 'Bulwark
    Against Something Worse'Breitbart NewsDawkins was trained as an
    evolutionary biologist, but achieved his greatest celebrity not through
    biology but through his pop atheism, regularly debating theists in public
    and penning diatribes against God and faith. For a generation of young […]
  • Hazim: Being gay, an atheist shouldn't make a difference - Free Malaysia
    Today
    Free Malaysia TodayHazim: Being gay, an atheist shouldn't make a
    differenceFree Malaysia TodaySome of his friends back home, Hazim revealed,
    expressed concern over his safety, while others were critical of his
    openness about his sexual orientation and atheism. “Some provided messages
    of support and solidarity. Some contributed to the GoFundMe.”.and more […]
  • After Alabama, Atheist Group Looks to Take on Clemson Over Football Coach
    Dabo ... - Breitbart News
    Breitbart NewsAfter Alabama, Atheist Group Looks to Take on Clemson Over
    Football Coach Dabo ...Breitbart NewsThe Freedom From Religion Foundation
    [FFRF], a highly litigious atheist group, looks to sue Clemson University
    over the role head football coach Dabo Swinney's Christian faith plays in
    how he runs the program. The only problem is the group can […]

Archives

  • June 2012
  • May 2011
  • March 2011
  • February 2011
  • January 2011
  • November 2010
  • October 2010
  • September 2010
  • August 2010
  • July 2010
  • May 2010
  • April 2010
  • March 2010
  • February 2010
  • January 2010
  • December 2009
  • November 2009
  • October 2009
  • September 2009
  • August 2009
  • July 2009
  • June 2009
  • May 2009
  • April 2009
  • March 2009
  • February 2009
  • January 2009
  • December 2008
  • November 2008
  • October 2008
  • September 2008
  • August 2008
  • July 2008

Regular Links

  • BlogCatalog
  • Centre for Social Cohesion (UK)
  • Committee for Skeptical Inquiry
  • CREATION movie
  • David Chalmers – Professor Philosophy (ANU – Consciousness Research)
  • Edge
  • Ethical atheist
  • Jesus Seminar
  • Naturalism.org
  • Pew Research Centre
  • Popular Articles
  • Secular Web

Thumbshots

[alexblog]
This site…

  • Site summary…
  • Progressive Christianity Lecture Sep 2009
  • Interesting links
  • Popular Articles

More quotes

Get the Quote of the Day widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox!
Not seeing a widget? (More info)
RSS Reuters – Faithworld

  • India’s Sabarimala temple defends ban on woman under court scrutiny January
    12, 2016
    Government authorities and temple officials in Kerala state are standing
    firmly by a decades-old tradition of banning women from one of the holiest
    Hindu temples after India's top court questioned the temple's right to bar
    women. […]
    Reuters Staff
  • Head of Marseille Jews urges them not to wear kippas after attack January
    12, 2016
    Jews in Marseille should avoid wearing the kippa in the streets, the head
    of the Jewish community in the southern French city said on Tuesday, a day
    after a teenager attacked and slightly injured a teacher there who wore the
    traditional brimless cap. […]
    Reuters Staff

RSS sciam – Mind Matters

RSS Science Blogs – Mind

  • New CDC data on opioid abuse: ‘The opioid overdose epidemic is worsening’
    [The Pump Handle] January 8, 2016
  • Feeling Sick? Blame Your Selfish Genes [The Weizmann Wave] January 7, 2016
  • Man’s best…empathizer? [Life Lines] December 27, 2015
  • Polar bears vs Grizzly bears [Life Lines] December 21, 2015

RSS Science Blogs – Nature

  • If the Candidates Talk About Big Science Issues … [Greg Laden's Blog] 
    January 11, 2016
  • Everything existing in the universe is the fruit of chance and necessity
    [Pharyngula] January 11, 2016
  • Do we want our politicians to address science issues? [Pharyngula] January
    11, 2016

RSS J & M Comic

  • restons

BlogCatalog

*Atheist Blogs - BlogCatalog Blog Directory
Bloggapedia

Blog Directory
Globe of Blogs

Globe of Blogs
BloggUp

Optimum Directory

Optimum Directory - Have sites to the new Optimum Directory for a free
reciprocal link trade.
Crazy Christian Devotions

Liquida

[80x15_li]
Admin

  • Register
  • Log in
  • Entries RSS
  • Comments RSS
  • WordPress.org

Theme fSpring, design by Fredrik Fahlstad Proudly powered by WordPress.

Podcast powered by podPress (v8.8 / v8.8.6.1)
                               Freethought Union
                              Powered By Ringsurf
                              Powered by WebRing.
                      ┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
                      ┃This site is a member of WebRing.┃
                      ┃      To browse visit Here.      ┃
                      ┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛                      
