[header10]
[shag1]

Morality Without God

Saying that without God, not everything is permitted, is not the same as saying
that our complex ethical systems are possible without God. Such systems exist.
Are they evidence of God? Or did they come about in some other way?

Darwin began by viewing God as the first cause, the force that set in motion
all that he saw. Later, he came to understand that God was not required as part
of the explanation.

Similarly, God is not required to explain moral systems. Yet the compassionate
or just treatment of humans by their fellows who don't have to is one of the
most compelling arguments ever offered for the existence of a just,
compassionate God. To disagree with this, it is necessary to advance some
alternative explanations.

The following is a brief survey of some other theories of the origin of
morality, followed by one of my own. Just as biological, psychological and
sociological influences conspire to influence any other human behavior, the
following theories don't seem to be mutually exclusive; they may all hold true
simultaneously.

Psychological Explanations. Freud wrote in The Future of an Illusion that
religion was nothing more than a self-deception in which man engages to deny
his own loneliness and fear. God is nothing morer than a projection of the
infant's loved, feared, all-potent father.

In Civilization and its Discontents, he went further, to trace the interesting
relationship between the infant's inability to distinguish its body from the
universe and the religious feeling of oneness with existence. Just as we must
renounce infantile impulses, no matter how gratifying, to avoid living our
lives soiled, helpless and ineffective, humans collectively renounce chaotic
impulses so that they may co-exist in a stable society. Morality, then, is a
reflection of the superego, while religion itself, the "oceanic feeling", is an
echo of the infantile id.

Freud's two essays were the mature expression of decades of work with adults.
He had not looked for morality or God; it merely occurred to him that what he
had found might explain both.

An excellent way to study a thing is to look for it on the margins: you might
study a country by examining its borders; an object by its boundaries; a thing
by placing it in circumstances it wasn't intended to endure.

Jean Piaget engaged in such an exercise when he looked for morality in very
young children, who had not had much time to be exposed to a complex moral
system in their secular or religious education. Nor did they have the mental
equipment yet to understand a complex, taught morality.

Just to make sure that what he found could have no overt relationship to
serious moral teaching, he looked for morality in the game of marbles. The
rules of marbles, after all, are exclusively the province of children, and are
not a topic in which the state or the church have much interest.

He found several stages of development among small children. In the first
phase, marbles were simply an object of motor skills, and infants engaged in
standard behaviors of tasting them, burying them, piling them up, etc. Next,
some of these behaviors became ritualized and repeated, as if associated with
particular thoughts of the infants performing them.

Within two years, small children old enough to speak were making some effort to
imitate the rules of the game as practiced by their elders. They did not have
the mental equipment yet to remember or understand all these rules.
Paradoxically, they considered the rules sacred, yet each child played only
against himself even when with others, and there was no true competitive play
under collective rules.

Later, children mastered the rules of marbles in competition with one another.
A keen sense of fairness arose that influenced the creation and use of the
rules. Finally, though fairness remained paramount, older children came to
regard the rules as their collective creation, a contract they form to be able
to play with one another.

Thus, the rules evolved to define the conditions for cooperation and the
penalties for defection, and may be amended or replaced by other formulations
serving the same purpose. To my mind, this research proves conclusively that
humans are rules-creating animals and that God is not required as the
explanation either of marbles or of morality.

The Prisoner's Dilemma. The importance of cooperation as a motivation for
morality returns us the the world, which we dealt with in last month's issue,
of the Prisoner's Dilemma. Cooperation evolves when people are involved in a
series of contacts and transactions with one another, come to have some
knowledge of one another, and therefore trust one another. A usual, if not
necessary, condition is that there must be some negative consequences of
defection; the other "player" must have the ability to punish a breach of
trust. In other words, morality evolves as a set of conventions regulating our
mutually beneficial dealings with trustworthy neighbors.

The Prisoner's Dilemma had not been defined yet when Piaget wrote, but in
discussing the consensual basis of rules, he clearly understands them to be a
means of promoting cooperation; the rules grow in importance as cooperation
becomes more important to the child.

A Biological Explanation. Along come the evolutionary biologists and
sociobiologists and argue that morality (along with everything else in life)
has a biological and evolutionary basis.

Although not all scientists in the field are in apparent agreement as to the
basic unit of evolutionary competition--the group, the individual or the
gene--Richard Dawkins has persuasively argued that it is the gene. Any
genetically induced behavior that propogates the gene causing it will succeed
in the evolutionary arms race. We all learned at school, and most of us accept,
that a gene which causes a leaf-eating species to have a longer neck, or a prey
species to run faster, will make its "owner" live longer and have more
offspring, eventually becoming general in the population. Dawkins,
sociobiologist Edward O. Wilson and others argue that the root of morality also
lies in the gene.

Dawkins gives the odd but enjoyable example of a gene that causes both green
beards and altruism to green-bearded people. If the result is that
green-bearded people intervene more often to rescue one another from danger,
greenbeards will have more offspring than others who are not rescued and there
will be more of them. Dawkins argues for a moral calculus that justifies risk:
individuals rescue others who represent a significant enough investment in the
same genes to justify the risk, much more often than they rescue strangers (we
rescue our offspring from danger most of all, as they represent our greatest
investment in the future of our genes). Altruistic behavior involving personal
risk otherwise flies in the face of common sense and the doctrine of "survival
of the fittest".

In fact, altruism exists in the animal kingdom in some unexpected places.
Vampire bats, who must drink blood every night to survive, feed their peers who
did not find prey and are in danger of starving to death. (This is also an
illustration of a Prisoner's Dilemma in which reciprocity--the bat you fed last
week feeds you this week--represents the maximum pay-off.) Cooperation builds
up among bats the same way it does among humans: bats are more likely to feed
bats they know, and especially bats that fed them before.

It is easy to imagine the genetic origin of this behavior. A gene that causes
or encourages the feeding of other bats (coupled with the ability to refuse to
feed bats who never reciprocate) will ensure the survival only of altruistic
bats. The altruism gene then becomes widespread in the population--as it
actually has among vampire bats.

Biological explanations falter when it comes to human behavior that has no
clear link to increased success of reproduction. Human altruism, of course,
does not stop at those bearing our genes; some humans take extreme risks, to
save strangers or even animals. Homosexuality represents behavior with moral
implications that clearly lessens the likelihood of reproduction. (Wilson
argues that the gene, if there is one, for homosexuality survived because
homosexuals helped family members survive.) Dawkins contents himself with a
series of wise observations about genes and morality:

  • The evolutionary environment, "nature red in tooth and claw", represents
    the "is", not the "ought". Sociobiologists catch a lot of flak for painting
    a world where morally questionable behaviors (such as serial polygyny, the
    tendency of males to have children with several females in a lifetime) are
    presented as "normal". Dawkins points out that genetic scientists are not
    arguing that the world ought to be this way.

  • We are not blind genetic machines. Genes may predispose us to a behavior;
    nurture, environment and free will determine whether we will give in to the
    genetic tendency.

All three of the fields in which morality grows--the biological, psychological,
social--coexist as layers of human reality, sharing responsibility for the
existence of moral rules. An example of this--one of the few places where
nature has left the framework exposed, so to speak-- is the taboo on incest.

Since incestuous relationships cause recessive genes to come to the fore in
offspring, a gene encouraging a distaste for incest would prevail, by creating
sounder offspring more likely to survive.

Psychologically, we renounce incestuous desires when we integrate the id in its
proper relationship to ego and super-ego, preserving family structure and
stability.

The social benefits of a ban on incest are obvious and help protect the family,
society's basic building block.

Morality is a beautiful meme. I have one more theory, complementary to the
others.

Dawkins ended his 1976 classic, The Selfish Gene, with a chapter called
"Memes--The New Replicators?" He postulated that ideas, and groups of related
ideas, all of which he called "memes", might behave like genes, replicating
across human brains the way genes do across bodies. Memes are engaged in an
arms race, the way genes are; the battle between Darwinism and creationism is
one example. Some ideas, like God and morality, typically travel together in
one meme, but need not; the question posed in this essay is whether morality,
as a meme, can exist independently of the religious meme.

Ideas can be beautiful and all successful ideas--those which survive because
replicated across many brains--are beautiful to those who hold and propagate
them.

Although some memes serve biological ends, helping to assure the survival of
those who hold them, many others appear to have nothing in particular to do
with biological survival. These others succeed because of their beauty, not
their genetic utility.

A beautiful meme could theoretically be invented by a single and unique human;
had she not existed, perhaps it would never come into existence. We would have
had the steam engine without Watt, but not Swann's Way without Proust. This
makes memes different than genes, where the propagation of a gene does not
depend on the existence or decisions of a single individual.

Because memes exist to propagate themselves, it is not their purpose, except
sometimes incidentally, to cause the propagation of genes. A meme may satisfy
another human need, such as the need for beauty, without being biologically
pre-determined or having any biological effects. The idea of celibacy, forming
part of the meme of Catholic religion, survives because of its appeal to
certain people, and in spite of the fact that it almost certainly assures that
its bearers will fail to reproduce.

The steam engine exists nowhere in nature. There was no biological template for
its creation and no biological imperative that it be created. It would be hard
to say that its invention promoted the success of particular genes, as opposed
to contributing to the benefit of all humans. As a meme, however, the steam
engine had a beauty, consistency and utility that caused it to be adopted,
improved and distributed once it came into existence.

Monotheism is another meme that must have succeeded for other than direct
biological reasons. People believing in a single God were not likely to have
more successful offspring than polytheists. Polytheism was also adequate to
serve psychological needs, protecting believers against the unknown and against
their own darkest impulses. Monotheism has spread across so much of the world,
and through so many cultures, simply because it is a beautiful meme.

Morality succeeds because it is a beautiful meme. Biology lays the groundwork
for it, conditioning us to altruism in very limited situations, such as when we
rescue our offspring from a danger. It took human intelligence, and a craving
for beauty, to produce a meme of universal altruism, across all racial and even
species boundaries, when it advances our genes not one whit to practice it.

Just as Piaget observed a rule-making activity in children-- the process itself
more important and expressive than the rules it created--humans have an intense
response to a beautiful meme. Here it is likely that biology is again
implicated; I (and I am sure I am not alone) find an almost chemical
satisfaction in doing the right thing.

A successful gene may drive out all its competition in the population; there
are no short-necked giraffes. Perhaps because memes have existed for a much
shorter time than genes, it is not clear if memes can triumph so completely.
Creationism and Nazism are examples of memes which still exist despite
significant set-backs.

Another reason that memes may never completely triumph over their rivals is
because memes, unlike genes, can now be stored outside their original
containers. A gene must be in a body somewhere to survive; but an otherwise
dead meme, kept on paper or in electronic storage, can be re-acquired by a
brain even when no other living brain contains it.

All this is by way of asking if morality can ever triumph and become universal.
It would appear that the answer is no, if success means the complete
elimination of contrary memes.

In fact, most people in the Western world pay at least lip service to a
metameme, a meme about memes, which holds that ideas should never be destroyed.
In the United States, our First Amendment holds that the cure for bad speech is
good speech, not censorship. This is why the Nazis were permitted to march in
Skokie, Illinois.

This metameme--which itself is a sort of moral rule for the governance of
memes--also says that memes ought not to be engineered. Of course, there is a
lot of memetic engineering in the world--advertising and propaganda are two
examples. However, most people still regard education as the process of
exposing young people to memes and indoctrinating them only in the process
(contained in the metameme) of evaluating and managing memes. According to this
metameme, the moral rules we communicate pertain to the process, not to the
substance of what we should believe. By contrast, memetic engineering, taken to
its extreme, would involve brainwashing our children, something we find
distasteful, as the metameme suggests that we should want them to think for
themselves.

The metameme therefore allows for the survival of memes contrary to everything
we believe, either in the brains of people who disagree with us or in storage.
And there will always be brains out there which, because of genetic
predisposition, psychological problems, or social circumstances, are drawn to
these contrary memes, even to the most evil ones, the memes of serial or mass
murder, racism, and genocide. Therefore, our morality will always preserve
immorality, even as it combats it.

There is another, related reason why morality may never become universal: it is
not the only successful strategy. This point is illustrated by the bluegill, a
small freshwater fish. The male fertilizes and supervises scores of nests,
sometimes more than a hundred, while the female, once she has laid her eggs, is
free. But a minority of male bluegills are free riders, surreptitiously
fertilizing the eggs in a nest guarded by another male. We are probably not
seeing bluegill society in a state of flux; after millions of years, the good
fathers and the free riders are in a permanent and stable balance (Dawkins and
his colleagues have illustrated that among animals, numerous "evolutionary
stable strategies" stand in a mathematically consistent relationship to one
another). Similarly, human society--which seems very much to be in a state of
flux--will probably always have competing memes of altruism and selfishness,
life's value and murder.

It seems fitting to return to the Galapagos to end this essay. On a beach on
the island of Floreana is a barrel which for more than a century has served as
a mailbox. Originally a gentle conspiracy of sailors to exchange mail, it is
now used by tourists. Everyone who visits Floreana leaves an unstamped post
card or letter in the barrel, and takes any mail addressed to anyone close to
home.

God is not present and does not require this behavior. Floreana itself has a
frightening legacy. For much of this century, it was inhabited by a handful of
human beings, several of whom came to mysterious, suspicious ends. Others left
the island; the sole survivor of those times still on the island is a woman who
(until she became too old) was visited by many of the tours; her colorfulness
rested on the fact that she could tell about murders, and that she was possibly
the murderer herself. Neither God nor human justice was present on Floreana.

But the mailbox survived. There is no evolutionary explanation for it: no-one
who takes home and mails a letter will have more offspring.

It is equally hard to say that Freud or Piaget participate in the success of
the mailbox. The mailbox does not protect us against the unknown in the dark or
the chaotic forces within ourselves. At most, one can say that it is a
satisfying game, like marbles, where we rejoice in our cooperation; but, unlike
marbles, it is a game played exactly once in the lives of most people who see
it, and then it is almost certainly played with strangers. In fact, one will
almost certainly never learn the identity of the person who mailed one's
letter.

The mailbox represents a Prisoner's Dilemma, where mailing each others' letters
represents the maximum payoff for cooperation. But the mailbox should not work
under the strict rules of the Prisoner's Dilemma, because there are no
consequences for defection. Most tourists will never return to the mailbox, and
defections are impossible to detect anyway; therefore, someone who leaves a
letter but does not mail one will never be known and cannot be punished. But
the mailbox continues anyway, decade after decade, and almost everyone who
visits leaves a letter and mails one.

The mailbox succeeds because it is a beautiful idea that appeals to everyone
who learns about it. Everyone who visits wishes to participate in the success
of the meme of the mailbox. It is the idea of the mailbox which causes the
letters in it to be mailed.

[next] [top] [last]

