The Eloquent Atheist

Positive Atheism with Humanist Nuances

Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content

  • Home
  • About
  • Contact Us
  • Links
  • Quotes
      □ Literary Atheists A to B, Quotes
      □ Literary Atheists C to D, Quotes
      □ Literary Atheists E to F, Quotes
      □ Literary Atheists G to H, Quotes
      □ Literary Atheists I to J, Quotes
      □ Literary Atheists K to M, Quotes
      □ Literary Atheists N to R, Quotes
      □ Literary Atheists S to T, Quotes
      □ Literary Atheists U to Z, Quotes
  • Submissions

The Eloquent Atheist

Post navigation

← Older posts

Yet another “end” has come

Posted on October 19, 2012 by Michael W. Jones
Reply
[happysad]

The Eloquent Atheist has been back up and running, for about five months.
During that time, we have published 214 new items, more than half of all the
columns published in our entire history. During that short time, we have had
many thousands of readers stop by and read our offerings hundreds of thousands
of times. Not a bad record for just five months. Read on…

Posted in Editorial | Leave a reply

A world full of desire

Posted on October 10, 2012 by Ryudome Sayonara
Reply
[Elysium]

Tis a world full of desire.
In which thoughts tend to conspire.
Soldiers everlastingly ready to wait.
Destined to face their inevitable fate. Read on…

Posted in Poetry | Tagged Elysium | Leave a reply

Midnight Train

Posted on October 9, 2012 by Walter William Safar
Reply
[train]

Whenever I take a seat in the pale,
old dust-chained seat
of the midnight train Read on…

Posted in Poetry | Tagged God;, priest, wandering poet | Leave a reply

….this is how I die everyday

Posted on October 8, 2012 by Priyanka Bhowmick
Reply
[cactus]

Like the penetrating touch of cactus,
Leaking my soul constantly,
I urge myself to sleep in harmony,
Yet my eyes disagree. Read on…

Posted in Poetry | Leave a reply

….in the silent wind

Posted on October 5, 2012 by Priyanka Bhowmick
Reply
[silent]

Swarming up to my spines,
The lusty fingers,
As I walk,
In the silent wind. Read on…

Posted in Poetry | Leave a reply

Which lies are better: religious or political?

Posted on October 4, 2012 by Michael W. Jones
Reply
[debate2]

In this space, we often make a big deal about replacing religion-fueled
politics with secular-based politics. We want the clerics and preachers to quit
telling people how to vote from their pulpits and go back to science-based
reasoning for our governance. We somehow feel that this is a big part of the
answer for what is wrong with the world. And we may be right. But did you see
the recent Obama-Romney debate? Did you get the feeling, later verified … Read
on…

Posted in Essays | Leave a reply

Silver Tears

Posted on October 4, 2012 by Walter William Safar
Reply
[dew]

You say that you have long since
turned off all the lights but one,
the light beneath which
I have kissed you
while pearly dew glittered
all around us, Read on…

Posted in Poetry | Leave a reply

Historic Humanists- Clara Barton

Posted on October 3, 2012 by Michael W. Jones
Reply
[clara]

Clarissa Harlowe Barton (better known as Clara Barton) (December 25, 1821
(although there is a confusion with her date of birth, as her birth certificate
says the 25th, while her family members say that she was born the day before
Christmas, the 24th)–April 12, 1912) was a pioneer American teacher, nurse, and
humanitarian. She has been described as having had an “indomitable spirit” and
is best remembered for organizing the American Red Cross. Read on…

Posted in History | Tagged Abraham Lincoln, America;, American Red Cross, Army;
, Clara Barton, Clarissa Harlowe Barton, first Universalist Church, John D.
Rockefeller, National Park Service, nurse, Susan B. Anthony, United States
government, United States; | Leave a reply

First Love, 1983 (an excerpt from The Donkey Prince)

Posted on October 3, 2012 by Thomas Bauer
Reply
[toronto]

Toronto is a new city of the mind. I think it was Samuel R. Delany who said
something about the way cities change, how going to one changes the one you’ve
come from, changes it in you, and changes you at the same time. Maybe it was
Ray Bradbury. From the bus that morning I saw Toronto for the first time,
apartment complexes and office towers of glass and steel, cavernous downtown
streets and the harbor with miles of urban … Read on…

Posted in Fiction | Leave a reply

Historical Humanists- Professor Henri Louis Bergson

Posted on October 2, 2012 by Michael W. Jones
Reply
[bergson]

Religion is to mysticism what popularization is to science”

“Homo sapiens, the only creature endowed with reason, is also the only creature
to pin its existence on things unreasonable”

“The essential function of the universe, which is a machine for making gods.”
Read on…

Posted in History | Tagged Académie française, Creative Evolution, Ecole
Normale Supérieure, Free Will, Henri Bergson, Matter, Matter and Memory, Memory
, Michelin, Modernists and Neo-Catholic Party, Paris Opera, philosophy;,
Professor, Roman Catholic Church;, Thomas Aquinas, Time and Free Will, United
States;, University of Paris, Vichy government | Leave a reply

Post navigation

← Older posts
Search for: [search_but]
Recent Posts

  • Yet another “end” has come
  • A world full of desire
  • Midnight Train
  • ….this is how I die everyday
  • ….in the silent wind
  • Which lies are better: religious or political?
  • Silver Tears

Tags

Agnosticism America; American Humanist Association; Arizona; Atheism; Belief
Bishop California; Canada; cancer; Catholic Church; Christmas; Christopher
Hitchens; Cliff Ashby; Congress; Criticism of religion Culture Daniel Dennett;
Egypt; energy; Europe; Existence of God Faith; food; Freethought Germany; God;
Heaven Hitler; Humanism Humanist; Iraq; Israel; Jesus Christ; London; Los
Angeles; Massachusetts; Michael W. Jones; New Jersey; New York; New York City;
Ohio; philosophy; Philosophy of religion priest Religion; Richard Dawkins; Sam
Harris; Secular Coalition for America; Secularism Spirituality Texas; the New
York Times; Theology United Kingdom; United Nations; United States; USD; US
Federal Reserve; Washington

Links to our friends

  • Atheists & Other Freethinkers
  • Reclaiming the Crucifix
  • The Rational Optimist
  • UU Humanists Symposium
  • Writers Cramp Publishing

Archives

  • October 2012
  • September 2012
  • August 2012
  • July 2012
  • June 2012
  • May 2012
  • November 2008
  • October 2008
  • September 2008
  • August 2008
  • July 2008
  • June 2008
  • May 2008
  • April 2008
  • March 2008
  • February 2008
  • January 2008
  • December 2007
  • November 2007
  • October 2007
  • September 2007
  • August 2007

RSS Subscribe via RSS

  • Yet another “end” has come
  • A world full of desire

(C) 2016 - The Eloquent Atheist
