Internationaler Bund der Konfessionslosen und Atheisten (IBKA)

International League of Non-Religious and Atheists

deutsche Site


About us  |  Membership  |  Contact
Search this site: [               ]
[Search] 
More resources

  • Links
  • IBKA on Twitter
  • IBKA on Facebook

Keeping education secular in Guatemala

A new bill aims to force all public and private schools to teach the Bible as a
source of values. Guatemala Secular Humanists launched a campaign against this
blatant violation of religious freedom. (14-Aug-2015)

International Atheist Convention 2015

Convention 2015Give peace a chance

Secularization and global conflicts

May 22-24, 2015

Comedia Theater Cologne, Vondelstr. 4-8

The world is changing rapidly. Atheists and secularists more and more dare to
raise their voice and to have the courage of their convictions – even in
countries where this seemed to be almost unthinkable until recently. At the
same time fundamentalist violence and intolerance have reached new and
saddening heights.

At this international atheist convention we want to come together in order to
listen to each other and to share experiences and insights from different
countries and regions.

The situation of atheists and secularists differs greatly from country to
country. What unites them is the desire for freedom from religious paternalism
and for a world in which not weapons but the better arguments decide.

Deutsch

Timeline

In cooperation with Atheist Alliance International (AAI)  Atheist Alliance
International

On Saturday, May 23 the IBKA award 'Sapio' will be given to singer, songwriter,
and evolution biologist Greg Graffin.

>>

  • Read more

AAI demands release of Bangladesh bloggers, protection of free expression

AAI press release (04-Apr-2013)

Atheist Alliance International strongly condemns violence in Afghanistan after
Quran burning

AAI press release (26-Feb-2012)

AAI launches appeal to support Alex Aan

Atheist Alliance International (AAI) demands that the Indonesian government
support freedom of speech and freedom of conscience by immediately releasing
Alexander Aan from custody and dropping all charges against him, pursuing the
perpetrators of the physical attack against Aan and repealing the country’s
oppressive anti-blasphemy legislation.

Read the full AAI press release. (25-Jan-2012)

Update: Alexander Aan was sentenced to two years and six months in prison.
Atheist Alliance International condemns jail sentence for Alexander Aan (AAI
press release from 14-Jun-2012)

2012 European Atheist Convention

The Atheist Perspective and our future: National, Regional, Global 25 - 27 May,
2012. Cologne, Germany

The convention was a great success! Read The Atheist Perspective is Fun! by
Tanya Smith.

Follow-up convention: International Atheist Convention Cologne 2015

Facebook "Like" us on Facebook

Watch the Video on YouTube

>>

  • Read more

European Atheist Conference 2011 in Dublin

Hosted by Atheist Ireland and Atheist Alliance International

Dublin Declaration on Secularism and the Place of Religion in Public Life
(Atheist Ireland)

International atheist conference in Copenhagen 2010

Gods & Politics

Co-organized by: Ateistisk Selskab (Danish Atheist Society) and Atheist
Alliance International

Copenhagen Declaration on Religion in Public Life

The recent Gods and Politics conference in Copenhagen adopted the following
Declaration on Religion in Public Life. The conference was the first European
event of Atheist Alliance International, and was co-hosted by AAI and the
Danish Atheist Society.

>>

  • Read more

German bus campaign

BUSKAMPAGNE.DE

Tour busIBKA supported the secular advertising campaign in Germany.

Since almost all local transport authorities refused to accept the ad on their
buses, the campaign conducted a bus tour through Germany from May 30 to June
18, 2009.

AAI Calls for Obama to Turn Down BSA Presidency

AAI Press Release, January 15, 2009

Atheist Alliance International has joined other national atheist, humanist,
freethought and secular organization leaders to call on President-Elect Barack
Obama to decline the role of honorary president of the Boy Scouts of America
because of its discriminatory policies of excluding atheist and gay youths and
adults from participating in its organization.

>>

  • Read more

  • 1
  • 2
  • 3
  • 4
  • 5
  • next ›
  • last »

