  • Home
  • Forums
  • Log In
  • []

[cropped-wh]

Right2Think

Exercising our right to think.  
Skip to content

  • Home
  • Forums
  • Log In
  • []

Rants

Islam is Not a Race (still)

By Martin Willett 12 January 2016 0

It seems the Muslim hordes have been at it again. Another video has been
flagged as unsuitable for a crybaby audience. Islam is Not a Race (Restatement)
that has already been reuploaded once because of attempts to ban it. It seems I
have to up things a bit. They get a video removed and another flagged so I must
be doing something right. I must make at least two more videos to replace it.
Maybe …

More
Introspection

I Hate Spammers and Hackers

By Martin Willett 11 January 2016 0

I have been trying to get the site running properly and I keep running into
problems. I have now got my email sorted out so that I receive everything that
the site is throwing out including hundreds of errors and messages about emails
blocked because of possible virus content. I have now reported these problems
to my web space provider and I think the problem should soon be under control.
Once I have all the …

More
Introspection

Where to Guv?

By Martin Willett 06 January 2016 0

I am planning to make this website into something of a social media platform
for people on the right. We all know that there are platforms out there for
bleeding heart liberals (facebook for example) and sexual freaks (Tumblr) but
there isn’t anything for the despised groups such as straight white men who
want to live in their own country. I am still at the stage where I can change
the structure and the whole …

More
Politics

Smoking them Out

By Martin Willett 28 December 2015  Islam, Muslims, no-go zones, population,
smoking 1

Do you remember when it was normal to smoke? It was normal to smoke almost
everywhere, anywhere. People used to smoke in shops. Shopkeepers would offer
customers cigarettes! Now it is illegal to smoke in any shop, restaurant or
pub. Yes, pubs! There is no tobacco advertising. Anywhere. Not on Grand Prix
cars, not in the cinema and not even in the shops selling cigarettes. How did
this happen? It didn’t happen all at once. …

More
Introspection

Come on In!

By Martin Willett 24 December 2015 1

If you were a member of the forum on right2think.net previously you won’t be
able to just sign in with your old credentials. I have transformed the site, it
only shares the address with the previous site. You would do well to remove any
cookies and retained passwords for the site if you can do so. The full website
launch will have to wait until I know that people can join, I need some
feedback …

More
Videos

Boys Going Away

By Martin Willett 23 December 2015  childfree, MGTOW, population, white
genocide 0

Videos

Terrorism has a Religion

By Martin Willett 23 December 2015  France, Islam, Islamism, terrorism 0

Videos

My DNA Results

By Martin Willett 23 December 2015  ancestor, ancestry, British, DNA, DNA
profile, English, Viking, white 0

Videos

Deeds Not Words

By Martin Willett 23 December 2015  Millicent Fawcett, Pankhursts, suffragettes
, suffragists, women's suffrage 0

  Recently I have been trying to pull together some material about the campaign
for women’s right to vote in Britain. The conventional leftist view we get
presented is that the suffragettes were really important and that actions by
the Pankhursts and Emily Davison were vital in securing women the vote which is
why those stupid women in their silly hats get so much attention. This seems to
flatter those involved in direct action. This …

More
Videos

Rivers of Blood

By Martin Willett 22 December 2015  1968, Conservative Party, Enoch Powell,
immigration, race, Rivers of Blood, speech 0

Enoch Powell’s most famous speech. The BBC own the copyright on audio of the
original speech and they use this ownership to ensure that the speech is never
given the treatment it deserves. So to put that right I decided to record the
speech myself. Doing this was rather daunting, but here it is. The full speech,
no omissions, no ominous sounding music, no overlay of images designed to
provoke a specific response, just the words delivered straight as if making a
speech but without attempting any cheap impersonation of Enoch Powell’s
remarkable oratory technique. I hope you like it.

Videos

‘Actress’ is a perfectly good word – a rant

By Martin Willett 22 December 2015 0

Lindybeige’s excellent rant about the word actress. I agree with every word.
Calling an actress an actor is insulting women, the acting profession and
actresses! If you haven’t ever checked out this bloke I suggest you give it a
go. He knows his stuff about language and weapons and historical re-enactment
and all sorts of stuff (including dancing, where I draw the line). While nobody
is right about everything Lindy’s record is very good indeed.

Videos

Them Days Are Gone

By Martin Willett 22 December 2015 0

  • About
  • All Forums
  • Log In
  • Sign Up

Recent Posts

  • Islam is Not a Race (still)
  • I Hate Spammers and Hackers
  • Where to Guv?
  • Smoking them Out
  • Come on In!

Recent Comments

  • alan B'stard MP (@alanBStardmp) on Smoking them Out
  • Martin Willett on Come on In!

Categories

Categories[Select Category]

Username [                    ] Password [                    ]
[ ] Remember Me
[Log In]
Search Forums

Search for: [                    ] [Search]
Subscribe via Email

Email Address

[Subscribe]

Tags

1968 ancestor ancestry British childfree Conservative Party DNA DNA profile
English Enoch Powell France immigration Islam Islamism MGTOW Millicent Fawcett
Muslims no-go zones Pankhursts population race Rivers of Blood smoking speech
suffragettes suffragists terrorism Viking white white genocide women's suffrage

Pages

  • About
  • Activity
  • Members
  • Sign Up

Archives

Archives [Select Month ]
[]
Upholding the Right to Think
Powered by Fluida & WordPress.
Clef two-factor authentication
Skip to toolbar

  • About WordPress
      □ WordPress.org
      □ Documentation
      □ Support Forums
      □ Feedback
  • Log in

  • [                    ]Search[Search]

