Southampton Atheist Soc

Because blasphemy is a Victimless Crime.

  • About
  • Contact
  • Mailing List

  • Subscribe to RSS

May 8, 2014 

  • by Sam Whitehall
  • in Uncategorized
  • Comments ( 0 )

The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy – Film Night

[hitchhikers_movie11-300x150]

“Life? Don’t talk to me about life!”.

For the final teaching week of the year, we’ll be watching The Hitchhikers
Guide to the Galaxy, to reaffirm us of how absurd life can be, and how silly it
is to try to draw intrinsic meaning out of existence. Or something like
that. Douglas Adams was a staunch atheist at least.

Check out the trailer here, and join the event here.
19:00, Nuffield Lecture Room B. 

P.S. – We’ve moved over from our old Facebook Page to a Group, so we can
hopefully get some good discussions going. Make sure you join the new group to
keep up to date with the society’s events!

May 3, 2014 

  • by Sam Whitehall
  • in Uncategorized
  • Comments ( 0 )

Bad Science Rant Night

[science-dog-300x171]

Rant Night is always a society favourite, so we’ve decided to squeeze another
in before the end of the year. This Monday (5th May), we’re trying a vague
theme of “bad science” — this could be trying to convince us of your pet
pseudoscientific theory, channelling your inner Goldacre and ranting about a
particularly stupid newspaper article — or anything else surrounding “bad
science” that you can think of.

There’s still time to prepare a rant, as they don’t need to be particularly
polished and are only 5-10 minutes. As always, we welcome any newcomers,
and we’ll be heading to the pub afterwards.

Facebook Event: Monday 5th May, 19:00, Nuffield Lecture Room B. 

April 11, 2014 

  • by Sam Whitehall
  • in Uncategorized
  • Comments ( 0 )

AGM 2014 – Be on next year’s committee

[A-ballot-box-001-300x180]

Change is a universal fact of life, and the AtheistSoc committee is certainly
no exception – which is why we need your help to ensure the society runs
smoothly into the future. The evening will include an overview of the year,
electing the new committee and getting feedback of this past year. Any member
of the Atheist Society is welcome to show up and vote at the AGM, even if you
haven’t been to our events.

Candidates for each position will be given two minutes to talk about why they
think they’re suitable for the role, then may be asked a couple of questions by
the members in attendance. Following this, there will be a blind vote (show of
hands). The returning officer will be Sam Whitehall (incumbent President), who
will only vote in a tie situation. Candidates may run for multiple positions.
Isn’t democracy fun?

If you’re thinking of running for a position, check out the details below, and
feel free to contact the incumbents/email the society with any questions.
Please let us know if you intend to run for a position (atheist@soton.ac.uk),
or you can also choose to run on the day!

The positions are as follows (along with their incumbent), along with their key
responsibilities:

President (Sam Whitehall): maintains overall responsibility of the society and
its members; chairs committee meetings, and usually events; typically represent
the society during interfaith events.

Vice-President (Livia Stacey): assists President; organises social events.

Secretary (Alfie Whelan): produces and maintains minutes for committee
meetings; sends weekly newsletter to members.

Treasurer (Richard Sangster): keeps accounts of spending and income; assists in
securing funding from SUSU and external organisations.

Webmaster/Librarian (Dan Palmer): responsible for maintaining our online
facilities (website, Facebook, Twitter, document/file sharing, email);
responsible for operating the society library.

The AGM will be on Monday 28th April (the first Monday back) in the usual room
at the usual time (Nuffield Lecture Room B, 19:00). There may even be a drink
in it if you win a committee position!

See you there,
– Sam (President… but not for much longer)

March 11, 2014 

  • by Sam Whitehall
  • in Uncategorized
  • Comments ( 0 )

Reason Week 2014

Ask an Atheist

On the Monday, we’re offering an informal, relaxed setting where you can chat
with the society about our own beliefs. We particularly encourage members of
faith groups to attend, as well as atheists/agnostics with no contact with the
society. We hope to offer an education into our worldview, and celebrate the
diversity of views within the atheist community, as well as busting myths! The
evening will start with a small presentation by Sam Whitehall (University of
Southampton Atheist Society President) and then we will split into smaller
groups. There will also be cake

Monday 17th March – 7pm
Nuffield Theatre, Lecture Room A

Andy Lewis on Pseudoscience in Schools

Renowned blogger, Andy Lewis, talks about quackery being taught in state-funded
Waldorf-Steiner free schools. The schools’ ethos is based on obscure occult
ideology, and includes numerous strange teachings: from delaying teaching
reading until age 11/12, to promotion of alternative medicines, such as
homeopathy. Andy Lewis blogs on the Quackometer blog, and tweets as @lecardnoir
. In 2011, Andy was harassed with a libel suit for raising concerns about an
expensive, and medically dubious cancer treatment facility in Texas.
Tuesday 18th March – 7pm
Building 46 (Physics), Lecture Theatre C

For The Bible Tells Me So – Film Showing

Director Daniel G. Karslake goes examine the ways in which conservative
Christian groups in the USA have used scripture to deny LGBT rights. It
includes lengthy interview segments with several sets of religious parents
(including former House Majority Leader Dick Gephardt and his wife, Jane, and
the parents of Bishop V. Gene Robinson) regarding their personal experiences
raising homosexual children, and also interviews with those (adult) children.
The film received positive reviews from critics. The review aggregator Rotten
Tomatoes reported that the film received 98% positive reviews, based on 43
reviews.
Thursday 20th March – 7pm
Building 35, Room 1001

Jonathan Pearce – The Case Against God

Blogger and philosopher, Jonathan Pearce, outlines the most powerful
philosophical arguments against the existence of a God. Jonathan is an engaging
speaker, who has talked for the society before. He maintains a blog called A
Tippling Philosopher.
Friday 9th March – 7pm
Building 35, Room 1001

March 6, 2014 

  • by Alfie Whelan
  • in Event, Film Night, Meeting Information
  • Comments ( 0 )

Film Night: Creation – Monday 10th March

[MV5BMjAwMjgxMDUwNl5BMl5BanBnXkFtZTc]

This Monday, in our regular room and time – Nuffield LT/B at 7pm, we’ll be
watching Creation, a dramatisation of Darwin’s life. It deals with his
struggles in formulating the theory of evolution as it would have great impacts
on his peers, on society, and more personally on Emma, his religious wife. It
has described as a “gentle, heartfelt and well-acted film”, and should be of
interest to all of us. We’ll be in the pub after the film, hope to see you
there!

Older Entries >>

Event Pages

  • Reason Week 2014
  • Reason Week 2012
  • AHS AGM 2011
  • Reason Week 2011

Upcoming Events

[loading_la]

Social

Atheist Societies

  • Aberdeen University Atheist, Humanist and Secular Society
  • Edinburgh University Humanist Group
  • Keele Humanist Group
  • Leeds Atheist Society
  • Oxford Atheist Society
  • Solent Secularists
  • Sussex Secular Society
  • The National Federation of Atheist, Humanist and Secular Student Societies
  • UB:ASH (University of Birmingham)
  • University of Liverpool Atheist Society
  • Warwick Atheists

Meta

  • Register
  • Log in
  • Entries RSS
  • Comments RSS
  • WordPress.org

Non-Believers Giving Aid

NBGA

(C) 2016 Southampton Atheist Soc. All Rights Reserved.

