Atheism

  • Atheism Home
  • Read Online
  • Download Atheism Text
  • Links
  • Blog

Religion is one of the most destructive cultural forces in our world. Any goods
that religion encourages can be pursued for their own intrinsic value – without
religion. However the horrors that religion creates may be impossible to avoid
while religion exists, indeed these horrors are often seen as desirable to
religious minds.

In four parts, my free book on Atheism discusses:

CONFLICT – Why religion is a problem.
THE MIND – How we think and why people are religious.
REALITY    – Why religion is false.
THE VOID  – Religion’s significance and life without religion.

[3122601]

Why Atheism? (Extracted from the book’s introduction).

For as long as I can remember and in spite of a vaguely religious upbringing, I
have been convinced that atheism is the only truly accurate position a person
can hold regarding gods and religion. My mother recounts a tale of my informing
my Christian Sunday School teacher that I didn’t believe in a god when I was
five years old. Yet since then I have encountered many other religions and have
often been impressed by their adherents’ works and philosophy or architecture
and art; the diversity of mankind can be both a strength and source of great
beauty. Far more frequently than not, religion has seemed to be no more than a
harmless delusion. What reason is there now that I should go to the trouble of
trying to convince others that atheism is the only genuinely accurate position
and furthermore that they should adopt it?

            Of the three viewpoints… atheism, agnosticism or one of the many
religions or sects that exist or could exist in the world, almost every last
one is exclusive of the others and only one position can actually be correct,
as there is only one reality to interpret. It must be the case that only one
position is true, particularly as each makes the claim that the others are
either entirely false or that they are only a part of the truth. The largest
group of religions, the Judeo-Christian faiths, made up of Jews, Christians and
Muslims, is completely riddled with such stark divisions. When we consider that
each religion or sect also contains a different set of instructions as to how a
person must live their life in order to receive the benefits of their religion,
there appears a massive potential for conflict in human interaction. This is of
course more than just a potential, but indeed a reality; mankind has waged war
upon itself in the name of religion well into prehistoric times.

            Conflicts stemming from religious differences are not only military
but also occur in many other situations, such as in governmental elections. If
you are living in a country where the government or people make decisions based
upon a religion that you may or may not be part of, it may be decidedly
inconvenient for you; whether this means that you may not dress as you please,
must bear the child of a rapist or are simply buried in a mass grave along with
the rest of the heathens. Religion has for millennia proven to be a catalyst
for conflict; its removal from our minds would not eradicate conflict entirely
of course, but it is difficult to deny that the end of religious belief would
be a productive step in the significant reduction of conflicts between people.
While it’s not as great a problem as procreation, nationalism or biological
disease, religion is certainly one of the greatest avoidable causes of pain,
death and suffering in human history.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Please take the time to read Atheism online (or better still, download it as a
pdf).

If you insist upon killing trees in order to read from their remains, you can
order a paper copy of the book from http://www.lulu.com/content/4418248.

David Wilkinson
wilko_@hotmail.com

(C) Copyright 2008. Personal or educational use is fine. To use my work
for profit, you will need permission. (Quotations under 1000 words excepted). 

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

The link below is the full versions of the book Atheism in double spaced text
(pdf).

[pdf]

atheism_by_david_wilkinson_-_read_on_screen.pdf
File Size:                   1578 kb
File Type:                   pdf

Download File
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

CLICK HERE to download other PDF (text) formats of Atheism.


Donate to the author via Paypal if you liked his book:


                                 [btn_donate]*
Hit Counter by Digits
Create a free website
Powered by  
Create your own free website

Start your own free website

A surprisingly easy drag & drop site creator. Learn more.
Quantcast
✕
