  • Home
  • Contact
  • Links

The Raving Theist

Dedicated to Jesus Christ, Now and Forever

Talk Among Yourselves

October 4, 2009 | 586 Comments

The video below has been making the rounds of the atheist blogosphere lately.
However, I don’t think that strictly speaking it is an atheist video. The focus
is largely epistemology, and virtually any word could be substituted for “God”
in the narrative. Theologians and believers can agree with a good deal of it,
and with minor adjustments, turn many of its arguments against atheism, or at
least certain forms of it. Much of the ground I covered in this post a few
years back, albeit without the emphasis on civility.

Regrettably, time constraints preclude me from expounding upon the foundations
of my own faith here although I do hope to get to it eventually. In meantime,
talk among yourselves. Below the video I provide transcriptions of the video,
one with a description of the graphics accompanying the spoken narrative, and
one without.

embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/5wV_REEdvxo&hl=en&fs=1&rel=0)


TRANSCRIPTION OF “PUTTING FAITH IN ITS PLACE” VIDEO

[Man Facing Room; Screen with Cube Appears]

Imagine you enter a strange room where a computer tells you that hidden
somewhere in the building is a cube. Then it asks you, “What does the cube
contain?”

Most of us would recognize this to be a futile question. The cube could be
large or small. It could be a solid block or a vacuum chamber of nothing but
sparse particles of gas. [Cube changes to reflect these possibilities]. Or it
might contain any one of billions of permutations of familiar or novel objects.
[Objects such as milk, container of blood, key, matches, skeleton with pumpkin
head, alien creature, weird signs appear in cube]. You could never give a
precise, justifiable answer.

But if you were asked, “What does the cube NOT contain?”, you could give many
answers. For example, the cube could not possibly contain the Amazon River, the
planet Mars, or absurd objects such as “a bed made of sleep”. In fact, there
would be more perfectly valid answers to this second question than you could
list in a million lifetimes. [Words “Does Not Contain” appears on cube, with
arrow pointing to words setting forth those non-possibilities outside cube,
followed by the following scrolling list:

Cats made of airport
Iron Gold
The 17th Century
Frozen justice
A human sun
1-dimensional cubes
1-dimensional swans
1-dimensional hips
The DNAof 1.10pm
A fossilized flame
The heliopause
The colour of up
The back of love
The uncontainable
My unbirthday
Music made of doubt
An inert explosion

[Words “Countless possibilities” and “Countless impossibilities” appear on
either side of cube; Words “we can’t know was IS in the cube appear below with
arrow pointing to “Countless possibilities; words “We know these are NOT in the
cube appear below word “Countless impossibilities with arrow pointing to
scrolling list of alleged imposssibilities].

This illustrates an interesting asymmetry concerning the contents of this cube.
Despite there being countless possibilities and impossibilities, without
evidence from the cube itself we can only ever make valid,
justifiable statements about what is NOT inside the cube, not what IS.

It’s true that someone claiming, for example, that the cube contained nothing
but a wooden spoon might be right, but since, without evidence, they could
provide no valid justification for such a claim, there would be literally no
reason for anyone to accept it. [Woman appears with cartoon speech bubble
indicating she’s saying “It contains nothing but a wooden spoon”; rest of words
of narrative appear beside her].

What if we were talking about a realm of existence independent of our universe
that like the concealed cube is physically inaccessible to us? [Words
“Inaccessible realm of existence” appear above oval labeled “our universe”].
Would things be different? Would we be able to deduce precisely what occupied
such a realm, such as a divine being? [Words “Divine Being” appear outside
 universe oval, and are crossed out by diagonal red line]. No, there’s the same
asymmetry as before. Countless kinds of beings might exist independently of our
universe. Countless logically impossible beings cannot. [Words “countless
possible beings” and “countless impossible being appear on either side of words
“inaccessible realm of being” with arrows pointing to them]. But while we can
list many kinds of beings that can’t exist there because they violate logic,
[arrow point from words “countless impossible beings” to words “we can list
beings which CAN’T exist,” which in turn have arrow pointing to the following
list:

An omniscient being capable of choice
A perfect being that needs to be worshipped
A non-spatial omnipresent being
An all-loving omnipotent being that allows eternal agony]

we can’t list those, if any, that do. [Arrow points from words “countless
possible beings” down to words “we can’t list beings that DO exist”, with arrow
in turn pointing down to word “UNKNOWABLE.”] Any attempt to argue that a
specific divine being exists in an inaccessible realm of reality is an attempt
to argue for either the impossible or the unknowable.[Angry-looking man appears
in middle of screen with cartoon speech bubble saying “Divine Being X exists in
an inaccessible realm of being!”].

Logic alone can refute impossible beings, [arrow points down from those words
to list of allegedly impossible beings] but it can’t show that possible beings
actually exist, without evidence. [Those words appear on other side of screen].
  If you can’t at some point provide measurable, verifiable evidence for the
specific being you claim exists, all the argument in the world won’t establish
your claim as fact. [Cartoon speech bubbles with words “Argument A”, “Argument
B”, “Argument C”, “Argument D” appear above angry man, only to be popped by
hand with pin]. This is one reason why as soon as anyone claims they have a
logical requirement that requires the existence of one personal creator of our
universe we know it will be fallacious [Cartoon speech bubble above angry man
says “I have a logical argument that requires the existence of one personal
creator of our universe”, with words soon covered with words “will be
fallacious”].because they’ve failed at a basic level to understand what’s
required to establish such an existence claim.   It’s just a question of
identifying where the errors are.

For example, the theologian William Lane Craig has asserted that our universe
had an original cause which, because it created our time and space, had to
transcend time and space. Transcending our time and space doesn’t necessarily
mean something transcends all time and space. [Craig is pictured with various
words from the narrative popping up beside him].

However, his conclusion that this non-temporal, non-spatial cause would have to
be a changeless disembodied mind is more seriously flawed. A changeless mind is
by definition non-functioning. Minds and purposeful creation depend on change.
Craig’s changeless creator is self-contradicting and belongs to the category of
the logically impossible.

However seemingly plausible they may sound to the unwary or the already
persuaded, all popular arguments for the existence of specific gods are based
on false premises and/or conclusions and unjustified presuppositions, and a
hundred invalid arguments don’t accumulate into one valid one. [List of the
following arguments appear on screen:

Cosmological argument
Arguments from complexity
Argument from contingency
Moral argument
Ontological argument
Argument from degree
Mind-body problem argument
Argument from beauty
Anthropic argument
Transcendental argument
Argument from reason

Words “Doomed Arguments” superimposed over list].

Many people with theistic beliefs don’t get tangled up in pursuing doomed
arguments like these. They know they can’t prove gods with logic and have no
need to do so. They realize their beliefs are personal and that others are
entitled to different views.

However, when you’re not so willing to respect differences, when you disparage,
attack, or work to create disadvantage for others because they don’t share your
beliefs, it shouldn’t surprise you when those you try to oppress object to this
unreasonable attitude and expose the flawed arguments that shore it up.
[Cartoon speech bubbles from speakers off screen say “You’re worthless,” “Your
lives are unlivable,” “This is a nation of Religion X,” “You’re amoral,” “I
don’t know that atheists should be considered citizens,” You’re human garbage”
and are then flicked off screen by two hands]. A belief in one or more gods
might sustain you in your own life, [women pictured praying at table with her
speech bubble saying “What’s the harm in saying grace”] but when you pressure
others to adopt your beliefs and participate in practices associated with those
beliefs, you give up the luxury of not having to explain yourself. [second
aggravated-looking woman revealed to be at table; her speech bubble says
“Please, either prove your God exists or stop nagging”].  You give yourself the
burden of proof, and certain reasons that might seem sound when justifying a
belief to yourself are simply not valid when you’re trying to justify existence
claims to other people, however passionately you express them. [speech bubbles
appear above praying woman which say “But OBVIOUSLY He Exists,” “He cured my
illness,” “I feel His spirit inside me,” I have FAITH!”; red rectangles with
word “invalid” superimposed over each bubble].. You can’t pester and bully
people and then retreat behind faith when challenged on your behavior. And if
you can’t demonstrate that gods exist, resorting to emotional blackmail to try
to get people to believe is a dishonest tactic. [Praying woman cries, with
speech bubble saying “Why are you trying to upset me?; companion responds,
“You’re upsetting yourself.”]

When those who don’t believe in gods show theistic claims to be invalid,
[companion from table now standing next to a man, and pops his speech bubble
which says “Complexity proves God”] it’s often claimed that they’re trying to
prove gods don’t exist. [Man’s speech bubble says “Why do you need to prove God
doesn’t exist?” to which woman responds “I’m just exposing your flawed
reasoning.”] In fact, all they’re doing is exposing flawed reasoning and
encouraging intellectual honesty. It’s understandable that when some have their
claims debunked it’s an uncomfortable feeling, and employing red herrings
becomes an attractive way to wriggle out of admitting their mistakes. [Man’s
speech bubble morphs into fish shape]. But debunking claims about the existence
of gods is just showing those who make such claims that they can’t assert what
they’re trying to assert. [Woman’s bubble says “you can’t assert what you’re
trying to assert”].

[Heading on page: “Defining the Divine (where the problems begin”]

The question of defining divine entities is where the problems begin. As soon
as you define any god you must justify why you’ve defined it that way, giving a
valid reason for each quality you’re attributing to it. [Speech bubble says
“God X has attributes A, B, C & D”; each letter is then circled with arrow
pointing to words “Need justification”].Many who realize they can’t justify any
particular definitions avoid them altogether, [words “God ‘Y’ is an energy
which defies definition” appear in speech bubble], but without definition there
is no adequately formed concept to have a belief about, [those words then
appear beneath bubble] and this is the stumbling block when people are asked to
define the gods they claim exist. As their divine definitions become more
specific they have more to justify, the flaws in their logic become more
numerous and there arguments become easier to refute. [Illustrated with a
meter’s needle pointing toward word “Specific”].  Conversely, as their
definitions become more vague the entities they are proposing cease to have any
practical relevance. [Meter needles points to “Vague”]. Ironically, the way
many people define gods means that as well as having no logical support, they
can’t be supported with evidence either. [Words from narrative appear on
screen].

For example, as soon as you say ‘God X’ is non-physical, you’ve proposed a
being that can’t be quantified, tested, or perceived even in principle. You
literally have nothing to work with. When trying to justify non-physical
entities people will often point out that we can’t see the wind but we still
know it’s there. [Various words from narrative appear on screen]. However, this
analogy is flawed – we know the wind is there because it IS physical. Not only
can we measure it and perceive it directly through our sense of touch, it can
knock us off our feet and destroy buildings. [Pictures of weather vane, woman
with hair blown back, and tornado appear on screen]. The physical force it
exerts could hardly be more dramatic. Indeed, we use that force to generate
electricity. [Windmill appears on screen]. By contrast, it’s not even clear
what a being with no conceivable physical characteristics is supposed to mean.
[Words from narrative appear] Even if you were proposing a being that had a
different type of physical existence, making it undetectable to humans, you’d
have enough trouble explaining how you could know it was there.
Many claim that the existence of particular gods CAN be demonstrated, that
their powers can be manifested physically and that these physical
manifestations count as evidence. [Words from narrative appear on screen in
speech bubbles]. But even if we were to witness an event that genuinely
challenged our understanding, that wouldn’t justify inferring any specific
divine agency. [Picture of moon saying “Jeremy Brett was the definitive
Sherlock Holmes”]. At most it could indicate power, intelligence, and/or
technology that was unknown both in its number and its nature. [Words from
narrative appear]

Imagine a group of people unfamiliar with electronic technology being duped
into watching a carefully staged CGI animation of a man turning into a lion.
[Man/lion transformation depicted]. If they thought they had just seen evidence
of divine magic, we would know that conclusion was false and due to an illusion
of technology beyond their experience. Likewise, if you were to see something
genuinely jaw-dropping, like stars spelling out words in the sky, [stars form
words “Stop fighting!”; man on earth points up and says “Look! A message from
God X!] you’d have no basis for drawing any reliable conclusions about the
specific causes of what you were witnessing. You could be having your brain
expertly controlled by aliens. [Second man appears saying, “No! It’s a message
from God Y!]. You could be having a psychotic break from reality. [Men fight,
with first man clutching second’s throat and saying “It’s MY God!”]. We already
know that brains can conjure up richly detailed worlds when we dream, and that
their dysfunction can cause us to hallucinate. If some kind of intelligence was
responsible, anything with the ability to manipulate physical matter or our
perceptions to that extent could easily disguise itself so we could never be
sure of its identity. With such fallible brains and such limited technology, a
spectacle like this would be beyond the scale of what we could comprehend or
investigate. [Words from narrative appear].

Could life forms of vastly greater intelligence and power exist beyond the
current reach of our perception and technology? Certainly. But even if we were
ever to find evidence of greater intelligence that still would not
constitute evidence of specific gods. Even if some kind of intelligence
initiated the existence of our universe, there’s nothing to say what the nature
of that intelligence was; whether it was a single or a collective intelligence;
whether or not part of that intelligence remains interested in the universe,
let alone the affairs of humans; whether or not that intelligence is aware of
our tiny planet, let alone capable of communicating with its inhabitants; or
even whether or not that intelligence still exists.

When you impartially review a factual claim, that, for example, one divine
universe creator currently monitors and judges every human life, the lines, the
layers of unjustified assumptions needed to make such a claim become starkly
apparent. One would be no less justified in proposing a race of aliens, that
created our universe with an advanced machine and annihilated themselves in the
process. [Alien finger depicted pushing red button]. As soon as you propose any
specific being, the nature of whose existence can’t be reliably examined and
quantified, even in principle, you’re talking about a non-scientific concept
that’s unsupportable by either logic or evidence. [Block containing words “God
X” falls when supporting blocked titled “Logic” and “Evidence” disappear].
Without logic or evidence at your disposal you have no grounds for demanding
that anyone agree with you. [Angry woman says “Agree with me” and “You’re not
part of this family!”] You certainly have no grounds for bullying and
ostracizing them when they don’t. [Red lines cross out woman’s words]. But if
that’s the way you deal with independent thought, your fallacious arguments
will continue to be exposed until you grow out of your need for everyone to
subscribe to your faith-based ideas. [Arguments “A” though “G” appear over
woman’s head and are popped by pin-wielding hand].

When you start being honest with yourself about what you know and what you
don’t know, you’re likely to realize that you’re in no position to be shouting
the odds. And when you understand that it’s behavior that has the practical
impact on our lives, you may realize that it’s not whether we believe in gods,
but how we treat each other, that says the most about our character. If you
attack, condemn, or use emotional blackmail on people because they don’t share
your belief in one or more gods [Angry couple pictured shouting at startled
woman: “Non-believers are human rubbish!” and “Join our religion of love and
peace or go to hell!], you’re invited to consider what that says about you
[magnifying glass appears over shouting couple] and how it squares with the
values you claim to embrace.

[Pink cube appears on screen; opens up releasing the words “Omne ingnotum pro
magnifico [“Everything unknown is believed to be magnificent”].

______________________________________________


TRANSCRIPTION WITHOUT PARENTHETICALS


Imagine you enter a strange room where a computer tells you that hidden
somewhere in the building is a cube. Then it asks you, “What does the cube
contain?”

Most of us would recognize this to be a futile question. The cube could be
large or small. It could be a solid block or a vacuum chamber of nothing but
sparse particles of gas. Or it might contain any one of billions of
permutations of familiar or novel objects. You could never give a precise,
justifiable answer.

But if you were asked, “What does the cube NOT contain?”, you could give many
answers. For example, the cube could not possibly contain the Amazon River, the
planet Mars, or absurd objects such as “a bed made of sleep”. In fact, there
would be more perfectly valid answers to this second question than you could
list in a million lifetimes.

This illustrates an interesting asymmetry concerning the contents of this cube.
Despite there being countless possibilities and impossibilities, without
evidence from the cube itself we can only ever make valid,
justifiable statements about what is NOT inside the cube, not what IS.

It’s true that someone claiming, for example, that the cube contained nothing
but a wooden spoon might be right, but since, without evidence, they could
provide no valid justification for such a claim, there would be literally no
reason for anyone to accept it.

What if we were talking about a realm of existence independent of our universe
that like the concealed cube is physically inaccessible to us? Would things be
different? Would we be able to deduce precisely what occupied such a realm,
such as a divine being? No, there’s the same asymmetry as before. Countless
kinds of beings might exist independently of our universe. Countless logically
impossible beings cannot. But while we can list many kinds of beings that can’t
exist there because they violate logic, we can’t list those, if any, that
do. Any attempt to argue that a specific divine being exists in an inaccessible
realm of reality is an attempt to argue for either the impossible or the
unknowable.
Logic alone can refute impossible beings, [arrow points down from those words
to list of allegedly impossible beings] but it can’t show that possible beings
actually exist, without evidence. If you can’t at some point provide
measurable, verifiable evidence for the specific being you claim exists, all
the argument in the world won’t establish your claim as fact. This is one
reason why as soon as anyone claims they have a logical requirement that
requires the existence of one personal creator of our universe we know it will
be fallacious because they’ve failed at a basic level to understand what’s
required to establish such an existence claim.    It’s just a question of
identifying where the errors are.

For example, the theologian William Lane Craig has asserted that our universe
had an original cause which, because it created our time and space, had to
transcend time and space. Transcending our time and space doesn’t necessarily
mean something transcends all time and space.

However, his conclusion that this non-temporal, non-spatial cause would have to
be a changeless disembodied mind is more seriously flawed. A changeless mind is
by definition non-functioning. Minds and purposeful creation depend on change.
Craig’s changeless creator is self-contradicting and belongs to the category of
the logically impossible.

However seemingly plausible they may sound to the unwary or the already
persuaded, all popular arguments for the existence of specific gods are based
on false premises and/or conclusions and unjustified presuppositions, and a
hundred invalid arguments don’t accumulate into one valid one.

Many people with theistic beliefs don’t get tangled up in pursuing doomed
arguments like these. They know they can’t prove gods with logic and have no
need to do so. They realize their beliefs are personal and that others are
entitled to different views.

However, when you’re not so willing to respect differences, when you disparage,
attack, or work to create disadvantage for others because they don’t share your
beliefs, it shouldn’t surprise you when those you try to oppress object to this
unreasonable attitude and expose the flawed arguments that shore it up. A
belief in one or more gods might sustain you in your own life, but when you
pressure others to adopt your beliefs and participate in practices associated
with those beliefs, you give up the luxury of not having to explain yourself.
You give yourself the burden of proof, and certain reasons that might seem
sound when justifying a belief to yourself are simply not valid when you’re
trying to justify existence claims to other people, however passionately you
express them. You can’t pester and bully people and then retreat behind faith
when challenged on your behavior. And if you can’t demonstrate that gods exist,
resorting to emotional blackmail to try to get people to believe is a dishonest
tactic.

When those who don’t believe in gods show theistic claims to be invalid, it’s
often claimed that they’re trying to prove gods don’t exist. In fact, all
they’re doing is exposing flawed reasoning and encouraging intellectual
honesty. It’s understandable that when some have their claims debunked it’s an
uncomfortable feeling, and employing red herrings becomes an attractive way to
wriggle out of admitting their mistakes. But debunking claims about the
existence of gods is just showing those who make such claims that they can’t
assert what they’re trying to assert.

The question of defining divine entities is where the problems begin. As soon
as you define any god you must justify why you’ve defined it that way, giving a
valid reason for each quality you’re attributing to it..Many who realize they
can’t justify any particular definitions avoid them altogether, but without
definition there is no adequately formed concept to have a belief about, and
this is the stumbling block when people are asked to define the gods they claim
exist. As their divine definitions become more specific they have more to
justify, the flaws in their logic become more numerous and there arguments
become easier to refute. Conversely, as their definitions become more vague the
entities they are proposing cease to have any practical relevance. Ironically,
the way many people define gods means that as well as having no logical
support, they can’t be supported with evidence either.

For example, as soon as you say ‘God X’ is non-physical, you’ve proposed a
being that can’t be quantified, tested, or perceived even in principle. You
literally have nothing to work with. When trying to justify non-physical
entities people will often point out that we can’t see the wind but we still
know it’s there. However, this analogy is flawed – we know the wind is there
because it IS physical. Not only can we measure it and perceive it directly
through our sense of touch, it can knock us off our feet and destroy
buildings. The physical force it exerts could hardly be more dramatic. Indeed,
we use that force to generate electricity. By contrast, it’s not even clear
what a being with no conceivable physical characteristics is supposed to mean. 
Even if you were proposing a being that had a different type of physical
existence, making it undetectable to humans, you’d have enough trouble
explaining how you could know it was there.
Many claim that the existence of particular gods CAN be demonstrated, that
their powers can be manifested physically and that these physical
manifestations count as evidence. But even if we were to witness an event that
genuinely challenged our understanding, that wouldn’t justify inferring any
specific divine agency. At most it could indicate power, intelligence, and/or
technology that was unknown both in its number and its nature.

Imagine a group of people unfamiliar with electronic technology being duped
into watching a carefully staged CGI animation of a man turning into a lion. If
they thought they had just seen evidence of divine magic, we would know that
conclusion was false and due to an illusion of technology beyond their
experience. Likewise, if you were to see something genuinely jaw-dropping, like
stars spelling out words in the sky, you’d have no basis for drawing any
reliable conclusions about the specific causes of what you were witnessing. You
could be having your brain expertly controlled by aliens. You could be having a
psychotic break from reality. We already know that brains can conjure up richly
detailed worlds when we dream, and that their dysfunction can cause us to
hallucinate. If some kind of intelligence was responsible, anything with the
ability to manipulate physical matter or our perceptions to that extent could
easily disguise itself so we could never be sure of its identity. With such
fallible brains and such limited technology, a spectacle like this would be
beyond the scale of what we could comprehend or investigate.

Could life forms of vastly greater intelligence and power exist beyond the
current reach of our perception and technology? Certainly. But even if we were
ever to find evidence of greater intelligence that still would not
constitute evidence of specific gods. Even if some kind of intelligence
initiated the existence of our universe, there’s nothing to say what the nature
of that intelligence was; whether it was a single or a collective intelligence;
whether or not part of that intelligence remains interested in the universe,
let alone the affairs of humans; whether or not that intelligence is aware of
our tiny planet, let alone capable of communicating with its inhabitants; or
even whether or not that intelligence still exists.

When you impartially review a factual claim, that, for example, one divine
universe creator currently monitors and judges every human life, the lines, the
layers of unjustified assumptions needed to make such a claim become starkly
apparent. One would be no less justified in proposing a race of aliens, that
created our universe with an advanced machine and annihilated themselves in the
process. As soon as you propose any specific being, the nature of whose
existence can’t be reliably examined and quantified, even in principle, you’re
talking about a non-scientific concept that’s unsupportable by either logic or
evidence. Without logic or evidence at your disposal you have no grounds for
demanding that anyone agree with you. You certainly have no grounds for
bullying and ostracizing them when they don’t. But if that’s the way you deal
with independent thought, your fallacious arguments will continue to be exposed
until you grow out of your need for everyone to subscribe to your faith-based
ideas.

When you start being honest with yourself about what you know and what you
don’t know, you’re likely to realize that you’re in no position to be shouting
the odds. And when you understand that it’s behavior that has the practical
impact on our lives, you may realize that it’s not whether we believe in gods,
but how we treat each other, that says the most about our character. If you
attack, condemn, or use emotional blackmail on people because they don’t share
your belief in one or more gods, you’re invited to consider what that says
about you and how it squares with the values you claim to embrace.

Category: The Daily Rave | 586 Comments

Home

July 3, 2009 | 106 Comments

Ashli at home, receiving a visit from her personal hair stylist:

embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/6yQHBDGkQg8&hl=en&fs=1&rel=0)

Category: The Daily Rave | 106 Comments

Going Home!

July 2, 2009 | 7 Comments

Ashli was discharged from the hospital this afternoon and is on her way home.

Category: The Daily Rave | 7 Comments

Checking Out Soon

July 1, 2009 | 7 Comments

From Ashli’s brother Shane tonight:

Hello All,
 
My eyes are tearing as I write this email – not because it is my last email
(Ashli is going to take over doing her updates) – but because your prayers for
her bowels to wake up have been answered.  :)
 
It has been another good day.  The surgical drain has been removed.  The only
tube remaining is an IV line.  So far Ashli has been doing well with her clear
liquid diet and walking up a storm.  I expect she will be getting out of here
soon.
 
I’ve given Ashli the password to this email account.  Feel free to keep the
emails coming. 
 
Thank you everyone for your prayers and support,
Shane

Category: The Daily Rave | 7 Comments

Up and Around

June 30, 2009 | 11 Comments

Ashli taking a stroll following today’s good news:

embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/0_HmQqzElOo&hl=en&fs=1&)

Category: The Daily Rave | 11 Comments

Good News!

June 30, 2009 | 8 Comments

I just received this message from Ashli’s brother Shane:

Hello All,
 
Ashli’s doctor came back and gave her the results of the pathology report.  It
was a neuroendocrine tumor but looks as though it was non-aggressive.  They are
still doing a couple of studies to verify this but he feels like her chance for
a completely cured recovery is in the 90% or more range.
 
Also of note, the NG tube is out.  Ashli’s mood has improved by about 100%.
 
I’ll try to get her to do another video tonight, but wanted to share this news
now.

Thank you all for your prayers!
 

Category: The Daily Rave | 8 Comments

Special Prayer Request from Ashli

June 30, 2009 | 10 Comments

Hey, all. It’s Ash. Not feeling well enough to type one of my usual long
missives, but I wanted to write real quick and thank everyone for praying for
me and my family. I am praying for all of you daily.

We were told we would probably be able to get the results on the nature of the
tumor 72 working hours after the surgery, but that didn’t pan out. Then we were
told that we would most likely have them on Monday, but that also didn’t pan
out. This morning the doctor seemed a little curious as to why it is taking so
long and said he would check on the results again today. I’m getting
increasingly worried. I also don’t understand why it’s taking so long.

Please pray for very conclusive, very benign results. Please appeal to our
Father over and over and over again until we get word.

I am hanging in there and hope all of you are doing well. Thank you, everyone,
for everything.

More later.

Much love,
Ash

Category: The Daily Rave | 10 Comments

Midnight Message

June 29, 2009 | 12 Comments

To relieve her pain and nausea, the doctors yesterday re-inserted Ashli’s
nasogastric tube. Although this was not unexpected given the usual downs of
recovery from such traumatic surgery, the procedure is not a pleasant
experience. By midnight, however, she felt well enough to sign you the
following message:

embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/-MRPOrY5Phs&hl=en&fs=1&)

Category: The Daily Rave | 12 Comments

Message from Ashli

June 28, 2009 | 8 Comments

From her hospital bed, last night:

embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/aNJd-5_EmF4&hl=en&fs=1&)

Category: The Daily Rave | 8 Comments

Greetings from Ashli

June 26, 2009 | 8 Comments

A couple of pictures from Wednesday. However, yesterday and last night were a
bit rough on her — fever, abdominal bloating and a lot of pain. Please keep the
prayers up!

ashli1

ashliday2

Category: The Daily Rave | 8 Comments
keep looking >>

  • Navigate

      □ Contact
      □ Links
  • Question of the Day

  • Recent Comments

      □ Miniskirt guy: Hey idiot, Colbert is Catholic.
      □ Jonathan: What an awful school! Seriously, that...
      □ Pope Lite: I asked an atheist one time why he...
      □ Gideon Jagged: You are a fraud, and I can prove...
      □ guy437: so using the best statistics of...
  • Categories

      □ Abortion
      □ Atheist News
      □ God Squad Reviews
      □ Godidiot of the Week
      □ Obituary Cartoons
      □ Prayer Request
      □ Saint of the Week
      □ Site Related
      □ The Daily Rave
      □ Uncategorized
  • Monthly Archives

    [Select Month  ]
  • Meta

      □ Log in
      □ Entries RSS
      □ Comments RSS
      □ WordPress.org
  •  

    Atheist Journals
    ? + hub ? ?

    Site Meter

  • Basic Assumptions

    First, there is a God.

    Continue Reading...

  • Search

    [search this site...       ]
  • Quote of the Day

  • Fifty Random Links

    See them all on the links page.

      □ No Blogroll Links

The RavingAtheist.com is Powered by WordPress | copyright (C) 2001-2016
RavingAtheist.com | Theme modified by Chris, original is here.

