How good is that?

Science Humanism Politics Media

[headr4]

Main menu

Skip to content

  • Religion
  • Humanism
  • Science
  • Current Affairs
  • Fundamentally Flawed Podcast
  • More
      □ Essays
      □ For the lulz
      □ Joe Cienkowski Video Book Review

Post navigation

← Older posts
May 10 2014

An incredible thing is happening right now in protest of FCC plans to break
the internet

A little bit of background:
To cut a very long and technical story short, every time you connect to
Netflix, YouTube, or your high bandwidth website of choice, under existing
laws, known as Net Neutrality, your Internet Service Provider is obligated to
pass that data along to you at exactly the same speed at which they deliver
data from every other website, regardless of size, popularity, or content type
— at least that’s how it’s supposed to work.

In reality, for the past few years, and at a steadily increasing rate over the
last few months, some of America’s biggest ISPs have been secretly limiting the
speed at which customers can access data provided by companies with whom they
compete.

Following complaints from customers, who proved in a series of experiments that
services such as Netflix were being deliberately throttled by the monopoly
provider Comcast, Washington lobbyists, hand picked by the very same service
providers guilty of breaching Net Neutrality, began to push legislation through
which would effectively allow a charge per-megabyte policy to any company with
high bandwidth requirements, so that they could gain access to a so-called
“fast lane” service — meaning that smaller companies would be relegated to the
slow lane, unable to compete with the larger players.

Naturally, the failure or simple inability of the Obama administration to stop
this didn’t go down too well with the 99% of ordinary Americans, which this law
would effectively relegate to using the crippled, poor cousin of the über
expensive second tier internet, which the richest and most powerful
corporations in the world would control.

Expect us
So, two days ago, a group of protestors outside the FCC building in Washington,
began an #Occupy-style sit-in — demanding that this blatant attempt by the 1%
to take control of the internet be blocked.

Then, today, web hosting provider NeoCities had the sublimely simple yet
brilliant idea of showing the people who work at the FCC exactly what a two
tier internet would look like — by posting a list of the internal IP addresses
assigned to the FCC building, alongside a blog post explaining how other
hosting providers could reduce the speed of content delivered to those IP
address at something close to that of a circa 1995 dial-up modem.

https://neocities.org/blog/the-fcc-is-now-rate-limited

The idea is, as we speak, taking ahold with other hosting providers around the
world. These three threads on reddit alone have, as of 1am UK time, received
over 4000 comments, and 12541 up-votes. The story has been picked up by
arstechnica, arguably the most respected technology news site among web
developers and industry insiders.

http://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/254puo/
web_host_gives_fcc_a_288kbps_slow_lane_in_net/
http://www.reddit.com/r/news/comments/254pxb/
web_host_gives_fcc_a_288kbps_slow_lane_in_net/
http://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/254pb3/
we_are_rate_limiting_the_fcc_to_dialup_modem/

One comment notes, “If Google and GoDaddy got in on this it would be over in a
day”. Another comment suggests that PornHub might also like to remind members
of the FCC how much they cherish their ability to access the internet at speeds
reasonable enough to stream the sort of “entertainment content” which is close
to their hearts.

Meanwhile in Europe
Over here in the UK, we’re building up to the European Parliament elections in
a few days time. One of the fringe interest parties, called UKIP, who have
shook up the three main established parties by effectively running on an
anti-everything to do with Europe ticket, is largely made-up of rightwing
activists, closet racists, and ya-ya’s from the chattering classes; the money
is no object types, who think giant corporations should be allowed to do
whatever they want whenever they feel like doing it, no matter who it hurts.

In a recent debate on the BBC, the UKIP leader Nigel Farage faced questions
from Green Party MP, Caroline Lucas, on the specifics of what Farage, the
ex-City of London financial trader and multimillionaire man of the people,
disliked so much about the numerous European Parliament laws which protect
consumers, and the environment, by holding large corporations to account.

Lucas specifically mentioned the recent passing of an act in the European
Parliament which didn’t get the worldwide press it deserved — which effectively
enshrined into law Net Neutrality, which will not only prevent the sort of
thing from happening over here which is now taking place in the US, but would
also guarantee that Telecom providers can no longer charge customers extra for
using their phones outside of the country where they were purchased
— effectively abolishing so-called roaming charges.

Farage’s response was to pretend he didn’t hear what Lucas was saying — which
wasn’t difficult for him to do given that he was talking over her the whole
time.

http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-26865869 – Net neutrality law adopted by
European Parliament

DON’T LET THE FCC TALK OVER YOU. Take action. Tell your representatives that a
two-tier internet is not an option. Ask them what they are doing to prevent
this terrible legislation from being passed.

Sign this:
https://dailykos.com/campaigns/638

Read this:
http://www.theverge.com/policy/2014/5/9/5699510/
web-hosting-company-puts-fcc-in-slow-lane
http://www.theverge.com/2014/5/8/5695748/
ajit-pai-asks-tom-wheeler-to-delay-bringing-net-neutrality-proposal
http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2014/05/
charts-why-fcc-ditching-net-neutrality

Rate this:

Share this:

  • Email
  • 
  • Tweet
  • 
  • Share on Tumblr
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
By Jim Gardner  Posted in Media and news  Tagged FCC, net neutrality, Netflix
3
Feb 10 2014

Some things Matt Dillahunty should know about Sye ten Bruggencate

Matt Dillahunty, co-host of the Atheist Experience cable access television
programme based in Austin, Texas, and all ’round upstanding member of the
skeptical / humanist / atheist community, has been in Sye ten Bruggencate’s
crosshairs now for some time.

Sye, being special, doesn’t think he should have to phone in to the programme
when Matt is taking questions from callers. Sye wants to be a guest on the show
so he can do what he always does when pretending to listen to what his
opponents are saying, i.e., play stupid word-games, and deliberately
misrepresent everything anyone says to him.

I don’t know how much Matt has already heard about Sye’s tactics, beyond what
he’s figured out for himself since posting the video reply below, but I thought
it might be useful to flesh out the basics so he can brace himself for the most
frustrating “debate” of his life, should it ever happen.

Sye will begin by asking Matt if it’s possible he could be wrong about
everything he thinks he knows. He will then proceed to use interchangeable
definitions of what the words ‘possible’, ‘wrong’, ‘everything’ and ‘know’
actually mean, depending on the route he chooses to take through his cascading
script of pre-written responses. He might throw in some other words he wants to
redefine as well, such as “evidence”, “logic” and “reason” — but regardless of
how he approaches it, Sye will lie about what Matt has actually said within at
least the first two or three minutes of the debate.

He will then claim he wants to be absolutely sure about what Matt has said, and
ask him to repeat his response — banking on the fact that because Matt isn’t a
robot he will phrase his reply slightly differently the second time around.
Then Sye will say that Matt has contradicted himself, by misquoting what Matt
said in his first reply. When Matt then corrects him on this, Sye has the only
“in” he needs for the rest of his trick to work. He might even repeat the
misquote a second time. This is called anchoring, and it works by creating a
moment in the conversation which the audience can be called back to at a later
time, minus certain pertinent details.

Sye will then make it seem as if the conversation has moved on, or that he is
interested in clarifying a statement Matt has made at another time, perhaps
during a different debate, or on his podcast — but this too is mere
misdirection by Sye, who is only biding his time for a chance to spring what
stand-up comedians refer to as a call-back — where the anchor made earlier in
the conversation can be used to make it seem as if rather than it being Sye who
deliberately misquoted what Matt said, it was actually Matt who admitted to
making a mistake. Sye knows that Matt will spot this, but it doesn’t matter.
Sye isn’t debating with Matt, he is preaching to his own audience, and fishing
for quotes which he can selectively cut and paste when he wishes to later brag
to his enablers about “defeating” Matt Dillahunty in debate.

As for the the old parlour trick itself, it can be adapted for all kinds of
situations, and it’s possible Sye himself learned it from the same books read
by everyone from magicians, who use it to misdirect the audience while a switch
is performed, to police interrogators who require the subject to become
agitated and bamboozled by having their words twisted. If you watch Sye in
action you will actually see his expression change when the window of
opportunity to use this slight of hand is opened up to him. It usually happens
around the part of his act where he starts interrupting his opponent while
they’re explaining something he would prefer not to talk about.

He’s also rather fond of appearing to contradict himself on something he
himself has earlier said, so that when his opponent points this out he can
accuse them of being incapable of knowing what is right and what is wrong
because they’ve already “admitted” they could be wrong about everything they
think they know — even though this in and of itself is the very thing which he
lied about in the misquote anchored earlier on.

And that’s it. That is the sum-total of Sye ten Bruggencate’s “argument”. End
of. There is no more. Nothing. Zero. Zilch. Where black is the colour and none
is the number, there you will find Sye’s “ideas”. He is not interested in
listening to anyone who disagrees with him, he is interested in lying about
what people have actually said, so he can shill DVD’s for Eric Hovind, and
Crown Rights Media. That is all. There is no “proof that God exists” involved.
Just lies, tricks, bullying tactics, and his own giant ego.

One final point, speaking now directly to Matt Dillahunty: Matt, please know
that no matter what Sye says to you about how a video or audio recording of the
debate be used, should it ever happen, with regard to publishing, editing,
repacking, distribution and commercial exploitation, he is lying to your face.
No matter what. He is going to edit what you have actually said, quote you out
of context, and rewrite what you actually said when he posts to his various
comments disabled blogs in promotion of whatever product he uses you to
produce. He is attempting to heighten his own profile by using you and the
Atheist Experience as means of doing so. They’re running out of cash, and
they’re running out of people to pull their tricks on. He wants to be the next
Ray Comfort / Hovind / Ham / insert name of liar for Jesus tax dodging cretin
here, and he is going to use your name to do it.

In short, do not believe a word he says. He is by far and away the nastiest
little spoiled child you will ever have the displeasure of meeting, and as more
and more people in the community work out exactly how his scam works, the more
he has to look for another audience — which he believes you’re going to give
him. He’s probably, for once, right. So, please — if you do debate him, make
sure he can’t sit down for a week. I can’t think of anyone out there in the
anti-everything brigade who deserves it rammed down their throat more than Sye
ten Bruggencate.

Rate this:

Share this:

  • Email
  • 
  • Tweet
  • 
  • Share on Tumblr
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
By Jim Gardner  Posted in Religion & Atheism  Tagged Matt Dillahunty, Sye Ten
Bruggencate
23
Feb 6 2014

A word on Jason Burns latest “farewell” video

As many of you know I am taking a break from the Fundamentally Flawed podcast
until at least March, 2014. This also involves my taking a break from the
day-to-day ins and outs of the religion verses rationalism “debate” on-line.
But the one topic I have kept quietly tuned-in to is that of Jason Burns,
because it was myself and a few others who contacted the authorities when he
threatened to harm himself a few weeks ago, and I wanted to make sure our
concerns were followed-up by the NHS team in his area.

Jason was off-topic during the period of time which immediately followed our
reporting his threat to slash his own wrists, because I was asked by the doctor
I spoke to at the Royal Oldham Hospital to leave it up to the professionals, as
well as being advised that it would be against various confidentiality laws to
discuss the case openly while it was ongoing.

But in his latest and apparently last video, Jason himself has disclosed some
of the details of what has been happening for the past few weeks, and so since
it is now a matter of public record I think its only right to fill in a few of
the gaps which are conveniently left out in Jason’s account:

In the video, Jason essentially makes the accusation that we only contacted the
police because we couldn’t “beat him” in rational (love his flagrant misuse of
that word) and scholarly debate. Further he asserts that we are censoring him
through the use of “Stalinist Russia” style tactics. This was after he was
called into his doctor’s office under the auspices of receiving a general
health check-up, only to find when he arrived that it was for a mental health
assessment. He also claims to have been told that if he doesn’t stop using
YouTube he would be sectioned under the mental health act.

Reading between the lines here, I think what’s probably closer to the truth is
that he was warned not to post any more videos threatening to hurt himself. I’m
particularly glad to see that the NHS didn’t scupper the chances of him
actually attending this check-up by flagging it up to him in advance. But the
best news of all is that Jason, despite our worst fears, has been given the
all-clear in terms of his mental state.

Sadly, however, this brings us to the rather disconcerting fact — that far from
acting the way he does because of any underlying mental health issues, Jason’s
behaviour actually falls within acceptable levels, despite that there are
obvious signs of a persecution complex, and a level of narcissism which borders
on being a dark satirical parody of the crazy Christian stereotype.

First, to address the question of him being persecuted, let me make it
abundantly clear once and for all, Jason was not “targeted” for special
treatment. The only reason he came to our attention in the first place was
because of the very ideas he claims we do not want to listen to. It is, simply
put, the fact that we did listen to his ideas which placed him on our radar to
begin with — not only because he is flat-out wrong about a great many things,
but because he appears to take great joy from repeating many of his mistakes
even after he has had them pointed out. But in the world of Jason Burns, the
ease with which some of his arguments can be shown false is merely proof that
they are in-fact valid.

Secondly, on the question of him losing “thousands” of “scholarly” videos.
Jason removed these videos himself. They were on the topic of Christianity and
in particular the resurrection. No-one has ever said that these videos should
be removed. No-one tried to have these videos removed from YouTube. The only
videos which we took issue with were the ones in which he named specific
individuals, accused them of saying and doing things which they hadn’t done or
said, and which he then refuse to discuss openly while making further
accusations of being bullied, simply by being held to account for spreading
what he knew to be lies.

When Jason blocked users who wanted to comment on some of his videos, or
disabled comments on them altogether, a mirror channel which also hosted them
and did not censor or block comments from anyone, did briefly mark some of
these videos as private, while the health authorities who were looking into his
mental state conducted their investigation — but they were not deleted, and
they were not used as a way to bait or cajole Jason into an argument for
argument’s sake. His frustration at these videos being hosted on a channel he
doesn’t control has nothing at all to do him being made to look silly, as he
claims in the latest video, and everything to do with the fact he can’t pick
and choose who comments on them, and selectively remove those comments which
disagree with what he says in them.

Another fact which Jason glosses over by simply not mentioning it, is that in
the lead up to his video wherein he threatened to harm himself, he posted a
video which accused my friend Kat of faking a serious illness, which saw her
hospitalised on and off for several long weeks, so as to get a sympathy vote
and boost sales of her husband Alex’s music. The number of people with whom we
fundamentally disagree and have had shouting matches with on the podcast
several times, who put aside their differences with Alex and Kat when they
needed a helping hand through a rough patch was genuinely moving. But the only
thing Jason Burns could offer was a sickeningly cruel accusation of fraud, and
in a tone of voice which couldn’t have been more offensive if he’d actually
ordered Kat to get back in the kitchen and shut up. The fact that he now
chooses to pretend this entire incident didn’t happen, and that he was scolded
for it even by people who he sees as being on his “side” tells you everything
you need to know about Jason’s actual interest in discussing the facts, and why
he now feels the need to adopt a little boy lost persona where he is the victim
of something he actually created all by himself.

Moreover, now we’re being told in that “look at me being persecuted” passive
aggressive way which a certain brand of religious activists have turned into an
art form, that it’s actually him who has been on the receiving end of hatred
and threats of violence; that his own doctor telling him to stop posting to
YouTube has nothing to do with him being caught redhanded in the middle of
several very harmful lies, but that it is we who are the devils with whom
Christian apologists must be careful not to dance; that it is we who have
caused him great injury.

This, my friends, is as close an insight as you are likely to get into the
mindset of a fundamentalist; for even when every single friend, foe,
professional healthcare worker and law enforcement authority with whom they
have contact is telling them to be careful, they will always find a way to
justify taking the one path which leads right back to where they started
— having learned not a thing.

This is quite simply a case study into the very dangers of anti-rationalism
which we are trying to raise awareness of. I couldn’t care less what religion
you do or do not believe in; nor do I give a flying spaghetti monster if your
religion tells you I am evil because I call a spade a spade — sans the jargon
of “religious philosophy”. What I care about is when your religion tells you
it’s OK to lie about me, what I think, what I have said, and what I believe. By
all means repeat verbatim every single mistaken statement I have made here, or
change of mind I have had about a given argument there. But pretty please, with
a cherry on top, don’t lie about me and expect that by playing the hurt
feelings card when I call you out on it I will mysteriously loose track of what
actually happened, what was said, who said it, and who did what to whom as a
result.

It is none of my business what you do in the privacy of your own imagination.
But when the voices in your head tell you it’s OK to blame other people for
threatening to self-harm, it absolutely becomes my business. I don’t care who
someone thinks they are, when they threaten to hurt themselves, they are
demonstrating that they are capable of violence, or that they believe a violent
act is an appropriate route to solving a dispute — and preventing that from
ever happening to me, or the people I care about will always be my one and only
interest in keeping an eye on the likes of Jason Burns — regardless of what
they want to tell themselves about my supposed agenda.

In closing, please do not give Jason what he wants. If he is serious about
leaving YouTube (again) please let him do so. He is not interested in listening
to what you have to say, he is interested in Jason Burns. His 15 Megabytes of
fame are over. So let’s put his audience numbers back to where they belong once
and for all.

Rate this:

Share this:

  • Email
  • 
  • Tweet
  • 
  • Share on Tumblr
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
By Jim Gardner  Posted in Fundamentally Flawed Podcast  Tagged Jason Burns
1
Dec 23 2013

My debate notes, for the podcast with Jason Burns (that never was)

Some people who listened to the podcast, which was supposed to be a debate
between myself and Jason Burns, but which he failed to attend, were kind enough
to ask for the text of my opening remarks. So here they are.

To be fair to Jason, he was in another Google Hangout with DPR Jones when the
time which was arranged for him to meet instead with us came and went. I don’t
know if he plans on rectifying this any time soon, but he is certainly welcome
to do so on a future podcast.

He has also responded on his YouTube channel to my opening statement, after
watching a recording of it, which you can see by clicking this link. In his
reply, he appeared to be genuinely receptive to what me, and my Fundamentally
Flawed friends, have been trying to explain to him for some time — so, if
that’s all that was achieved, I’m happy to have done my bit.

Thanks again. Jim.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Is Christianity True?

The subject of tonight’s debate sounds simple enough; is Christianity true? But
to answer that question honestly, we need to define exactly what we mean by
Christianity. This is a much more complicated question, because to some people
Christianity is about what they believe to be true, and to others it’s about
what they believe they can prove is true.

For instance, there are plenty of people who would describe themselves as
Christian if they were asked to fill out some basic information about
themselves on a national survey, or in a hospital admissions form, or if they
wanted to get married in a church.

They were educated in a school where Christian prayers were held on a morning;
the local vicar or priest presided over special ceremonies at different times
of the year, or because they have attended church with their family every week
since they were a young child, and believe that the shared moral values of that
community are one and the same thing as Christianity itself.

They might also believe that you can’t be a part of a loving and socially
binding community unless all the members of that community share the same
Christian beliefs. But many of them also know that there is a difference
between what someone might believe, and what someone can prove. They are under
no illusions about the stories in the bible being metaphorical; that the story
of Adam and Eve, for instance, when properly understood, is a first century
attempt at explaining the meaning of life, and how we came to be here. They
understand that to believe it is a story which literally happened to two actual
living human beings in history, is to completely misunderstand what the story
is trying to tell us. They understand, in other words, the meaning of the word
‘Faith’.

People who recognise themselves in this group are referred to broadly as
‘Social Christians’. From a young age, Social Christians memorise the words to
certain prayers, and as adults they regurgitate these same words at weddings,
funerals, and regular Sunday service — kneeling and standing at the allotted
times during the service at the same time as everyone else.

Many well meaning, perfectly good people in the Social Christian group don’t
concern themselves too much with the finer details behind the cultural
traditions which underpin these rituals, ceremonies, incantations, and sacred
rites of passage. Probing questions about God, the teachings of Jesus, and the
historical accuracy of the bible itself, are often compartmentalised into
“those parts of religion which require further reading” — reading and learning
which, in their busy lives balancing work with bringing up children, or
managing their professional careers, they simply don’t have the time to study
themselves with any serious depth.

Despite this, Social Christians comfort themselves with the notion that, while
they don’t have the time to look for the answers to the deep and meaningful
questions about life the universe and everything, which they are told a belief
in Christianity can provide, somewhere deep within the hierarchy of their
church and its wider affiliations, there must be some serious theologians and
bible scholars, who do in fact understand the answers to these questions. They
place their faith in the learne’d bishops, cardinals, senior pastors, and
theologians, who run their church, even when these people appear to give
contradictory or unsatisfactory answers to some of the really big questions.

So, from a certain point of view, if we ask the question of tonight’s debate
‘Is Christianity True?’ according to the values and beliefs of this social
group, the answer would have to be yes; Christianity is true. Why? Well
firstly, these people have no reason to believe that they are being lied to
when they are told Christianity provides a space for them which deals with
spiritual matters, as opposed to material concerns.

Christianity of this kind, is also a ready made social group, with people who
understand each other’s worries; when their car decides to break down on the
same day their mortgage payments are due, or their kids need yet another pair
of new shoes for school. This kind of Social Christianity gives ordinary
people, all around the world, an unbreakable safety-net; ready to catch them
when they stumble and fall from the high wire of life.

So why, we have to ask, would anybody not want to believe in that? Surely you’d
have to be some kind of nihilist, who doesn’t believe in anything at all, to
dismiss that kind of belief? A belief in the goodness of people.

But the truth of this kind of Christianity even goes one better than that,
because it’s not just about the small things on a person to person basis, which
makes the social cohesion of the church a force for general good. Catholic
relief organisations alone raise hundreds of millions of pounds every year to
aid the poorest of the poor in the world. They go into dangerous regions to
feed the hungry and home the homeless. Indeed the very selflessness of the
people who do this work — literally doing what they are told in the New
Testament they must do in order to enter the kingdom of heaven, is an area
which no atheist I know, and certainly not myself personally, would ever seek
to criticise — even though we could have an entirely separate debate about what
exactly is meant by “the kingdom of heaven”, and why you would want to spend an
eternity in such a place to begin with.

And yet my opponent this evening, Jason Burns, has repeatedly stated that
atheists (all of us mind you) stand against the very values I have just made
abundantly clear represent the best of human nature. Indeed, Jason Burns
represents a sadly growing breed of Christian fundamentalists today, whose
fingers are planted so firmly in their ears, that they don’t even hear the
harsh criticisms of their actions which come from other Christians, let alone
from those of us who were raised religious, but who now hold ourselves to a far
better standard of truth, than a belief in belief itself.

Christian fundamentalists have, in recent years, had this harsh light of truth
shone onto their actions, beliefs, and teachings — many of which make a mockery
of those very people in the church who dedicate their lives to believing in the
works attributed to the alleged Christ in the New Testament.

They betray their own in some extremely disturbing, and in many cases very
deliberately antagonistic ways.

For example, we now know, thanks to freedom of information requests filed with
the authorities in the United States, that this dirty underbelly of
Fundamentalist Christianity, have founded hundreds of extreme right wing
political organisations, who enjoy tax exemption because of their
pseudo-religious status.

These organisations have funded everything from the war on women’s reproductive
rights, and the conservative led opposition to universal health care, to
demands for pre-enlightenment notions about biology, chemistry and physics to
be taught in state run schools, instead of science.

We fight against these attacks on our civil liberties, right alongside many of
our Social Christian friends, who no more equate atheism with nihilism, than we
on the non-religious side equate the Vatican sanctioned systematic rape of
children, with the values of the vast majority of law abiding, right thinking
Catholics, who are as appalled by these evil acts as the current Pope, who
replaced a German theologian who actively protected those who carried out these
atrocities, rather than obey the very creed he was sworn to uphold.

Not that crimes against children are the exclusive preserve of Catholic
clerics. In Washington State, in November of this year, Larry and Carri
Williams were given life imprisonment, for the beating and starving to death of
their adopted daughter Hana. They were the fourth set of parents to be
convicted of such crimes, in the United States alone, who cited the advice of a
book called “To Train Up a Child” written by Michael and Debi Pearl, of the No
Greater Joy Ministries, as a justification for their sick depravity.

This book, which claims to present biblical justification for its methods of
raising a child to be a “good Christian” includes amongst its advice the use of
whips on the bare skin of infants only a few months old, and insists that,
quote, “Parents who don’t whip their babies into complete submission are
indifferent, lazy, careless and neglectful”, and are guilty therefore of
“creating a Nazi”.

The question here is, how fair would it be for me to insist that, if my
opponent is serious about answering the question of tonight’s debate honestly,
that he must justify the teachings of this perverted book, and the bible which
inspired its writers to carry out such wicked acts on their own children?

Now, there are many who might argue that, since my opponent this evening
recently described himself as being, “The UK’s foremost theologian”, that he
should find it easy to justify the slow and painful torture of infants at the
hands of people who believe as fervently in their heart of hearts as he does,
that they have special permission from Yahweh, which gives them a
get-out-of-jail-free card when it comes to questions such as this, and that it
is therefore perfectly fair for me to ask him to explain such evil acts, using
only his much claimed “vast scholarly knowledge of the bible” as a means of
doing so.

But how many times do we atheists hear it said, that we are evil and morally
bereft, simply because Stalin or Pol Pot were themselves anti-religious. And
how often do we have to point out the ignorance of such statements, and remind
those who continue nevertheless to churn them out, that for every psychopath
who will use the first thing which springs into their twisted minds to justify
their actions, there are millions of people around the world who spread peace,
love, and understanding despite that they do not hold onto any religious
notions about the origins of altruism, compassion, and morality?

How often do we have to explain that to use these kinds of false guilt by
association tactics, is to stoop into using precisely the same kind of tricks
we constantly find being used against us; and should therefore be above using
ourselves?

And what of the values of Secular Humanism which we do uphold? We are often
accused, after-all, of believing in nothing.

Well, as far as charitable works go, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, for
example, is specifically set-up, using the vast fortune of the Microsoft
billionaire, himself an atheist, to eradicate some of the most virulent and
life threatening diseases known to man. It does this by a focused application
of methods proven to be effective, not by wishful thinking, but by the rigorous
and true methods of science, and the best which 21st century medicine can
offer.

In some of the most war torn and dangerous places on Earth, secular charities
are given unique access to those who need their services the most, precisely
because they are not affiliated with any church or religious group.

Ask yourself, how many children with Muslim parents would be left to die of
treatable diseases, if the Bill & Melinda Gates foundation, or Doctors Without
Borders, only hired Christian missionaries — many of whom undoubtedly have
humanitarian concerns at the forefront of their work, but who nevertheless
side-load their efforts with the handing out of bibles and preaching about
Jesus, when they do their work on behalf of religious charities?

So, I won’t be asking my opponent this evening to justify the evils which are
carried out by Christians, in order to answer the topic of the debate, “Is
Christianity True”? Neither will I ask him to explain, if as I expect him to
assert that the answer to this question is “Yes”, how it is possible then for
so many people around the world, who do not believe in any gods, let alone the
specific God of the particular religion which Mr. Burns just so happens to
belong to, nevertheless manage to live perfectly good and peaceful lives?

I won’t be asking this, primarily because we already know what the
fundamentalist’s answer to this question is, and I’m sure that there are as
many people watching this debate who are as tired as I am, of being told that
this is because whether we atheists like it or not, we are just as incapable of
escaping Yahweh’s iron grip as those who willingly grovel before the only book
which claims He exists in the first place, despite that we can dismiss the
bible as the bronze-age fiction it has been repeatedly proven to be.

No, the only thing which Jason has to do, in order to claim the sort of victory
in this debate which he deserves, as opposed to the one he is already claiming
to have won before it even took place, is accept that in the real world, the
only things which matter have nothing to do with what you believe, but are to
do with how you behave.

In the incestuous world of internet point scoring and petty squabbles, where
professional liars like Tim, the self-styled Bible Thumping Wingnut, or Eric
Hovind, Sye ten Bruggencate, and William Lane Craig — flourish in their efforts
to distort and divide us into easy to attack stereotypes — all Jason Burns has
to do, to be found in favour of the motion, and show that he is beyond using
the sorts of tactics adopted by the lunatic fringe, is acknowledge the truth of
the kind of Social Christianity which me, and many others like me were raised
to believe in, because it is precisely this type of Christianity which will
save the fundamentalists from themselves.

When I was a young man, sitting in the pews at church, at those family
weddings, funerals and regular Sunday services — going through the motions
because I believed it made me a good person — I did so because I saw what
forgiveness and a peaceful understanding of one another can achieve, from
people who learned their life lessons the hard way. My grandmother raised four
children on the good will and community spirit of a once vibrant Catholic
church, which today has fewer and fewer parishioners who regularly attend
Sunday Mass, and which no longer has a priest in permanent residence.

But where the fundamentalists see declining church numbers in this country and
elsewhere as a portent to the end times, we see it as a great victory for
common sense — because it means that, finally, people are beginning to
understand that caring for one another, and having a strong sense of social
responsibility, are not values exclusive to Christianity, but are the best
argument for Secular Humanism it is possible to make; that you don’t need to
believe in things which aren’t true, in order to live a good and fulfilled
life.

The problem for Jason, and his ilk, is that in acknowledging these shared
values, they must also acknowledge that, continuing to call it Christianity at
this point, merely highlights the futility of seeking to mislabel those aspects
which define a good life well lived, simply in order to be seen, like a modern
day Pharisee, to be holier than holy — to be seen by ones peers as being better
than someone who believes in things which can be proven to be true, simply by
saying you believe in things which cannot.

So I would like to invite my opponent to accept that, from our point of view,
the tactics he employs of simply lying to himself and other people about who we
are, as atheists, does nothing to preach the message of the gospel he believes
in. If he can do this, he will easily claim the victory which only he thinks it
is necessary for him to win in tonight’s debate.

Sadly, however, I rather suspect he will refuse to do this. I suggest that,
instead, what we’re going to hear from Jason, and his all broadcast and no
receive Cosa Nostra of sheep in wolves clothing, not just tonight but in the
coming weeks, is a repeat of that same demand, which is made of those of us on
the non-religious benches over and over again; to explain away a string of
unrelated, out-of-context anecdotes, about personal experiences, and the second
and third hand accounts of these experiences, by authors already-on-board the
lucrative Christian publishing gravy train; and those writers of fan fiction
which grease it’s wheels; who are as oblivious to the real world which science
has revealed to all of us, as they are blind to the fact that their entire
modus operandi is seen, by the lights of the modern communication age, for the
blatant scam that is, was, and always will be.

We’re not going to hear anything from Jason, about how his twisted version of
Christianity accounts for the mountain of scientific evidence which points to
the universe being billions of years old, or the Earth itself being abundant
with life, precisely because of the natural mechanisms described in astonishing
detail by evolutionary biology, or indeed the complementary sciences of
physics, cosmology, chemistry, and geology — all of which prove beyond any
reasonable doubt that page one, chapter one, verse one of the bible itself
simply isn’t true.

But in the world of Jason Burns, and other fundamentalists like him, none of
these matters of fact are of any concern.

They are so focused on their complete mischaracterisation of what the word
‘atheist’ itself actually means, that when we shout from the rooftops about how
amazing the universe is precisely because there are no gods — they simply
assume our efforts to point out this basic fact must be a trick; designed to
cheat them into abandoning their emotionally comforting yet logically
fallacious, carefully annotated collection of call and response received
opinions, which seldom bear any relationship to the facts.

In their world of internal dialogue, where the existence of devils and demons
is accepted without question, but the intellectual honesty of the scientific
method is fair game, to be torn apart until it is stripped of the facts which
prevent it from fitting the narrative they wish to spin — by our simple honesty
in admitting that we do not see any evidence for the existence of a
supernatural aspect, we are admitting that we did not find the evidence planted
for us in the places where they manufactured it.

Their cookie cutter production line process, of squinting in a dimly lit room
at the very same sacred texts which we have had quoted at us, as if we haven’t
heard them literally chapter and verse a thousand times before, is in it’s very
failure to sway us towards their twisted goals, merely yet more proof of what
they already believed about us, before they pretended to listen to what we have
to say.

So, in closing, I simply say this to all the Jason Burns out there watching and
listening to tonight’s debate; we know what you believe and why you believe it.
But the childish games you’ve played in the past year alone haven’t even begun
to convince us why we must believe it too. In fact all you’ve achieved is the
exact opposite.

And yet persuade us of your claims you must — not simply to justify the
uncountable number of times you have misquoted what we have actually said to
you, and said about you, and about the shallow and ignorant non-arguments you
make against our deliberate and unceasing campaign against the lies you teach
to children; or in your endless YouTube diatribes about how “evil”, “nasty”,
and “dirty” we are, simply because we pay attention to the details you would
prefer went away.

No. You must explain why we should believe what you believe for no other
reason, than if your version of Christianity really is true, it is your moral
duty to convince us of it — not with your words, but with your actions.

But, as Spiderman once said, with great power comes great responsibility, so
you must also recognise that, by definition, it must also be our moral
responsibility to save you from becoming the very thing you fear the most,
because we share this planet together whether you like it or not. None of us
exist in a vacuum.

And so I invite my opponent tonight, to accept what far too many have refused
to do before. Listen to us, when we tell you in all sincerity, Social
Christian, Secular Humanist, Agnostic, Atheist, and all points in-between,
together with one undivided voice of reason — your brand of Fundamentally
Flawed religious extremism is not only completely untrue, it is dangerous; and
if you had any real understanding of why we despise what religious
fundamentalism does to retard human progress, in it’s total and complete
ignorance of what Einstein, Turing, Dirac, Pauli, Newton, Darwin and Jesus
wanted to teach all of us, you wouldn’t want it to be true either.

Rate this:

Share this:

  • Email
  • 
  • Tweet
  • 
  • Share on Tumblr
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
By Jim Gardner  Posted in Fundamentally Flawed Podcast  Tagged Jason Burns
0
Aug 14 2013

Secret Law, or this is how democracy dies.

torture-scene-with-rats-from-the-movie-1984The founder of Lavabit, Ladar
Levison, has spoken to Democracy Now about his decision to close his encrypted
email service, rather than, as he said, be forced to commit crimes against his
fellow Americans.

Although Levison is prevented from talking about what this means, because a
secret system which operates outside of judicial oversight would automatically
see him given a five year prison sentence if he did, it is widely believed that
his decision to close Lavabit, without any prior warning to his hundreds of
thousands of paying customers, was in response to being ordered to give the
security services back-door access to the emails of NSA whistleblower Edward
Snowden — a user of Lavabit.

Part Two: http://www.democracynow.org/2013/8/13/
former_internet_provider_gagged_by_national

You don’t need to be from the tin foil hat brigade to see that, unless
something is done to shut down this blatantly unconstitutional legal loophole,
it could well be the start of a cascading series of events which result in mass
public disobedience and demonstrations. There are people on the streets of
Egypt, Syria, and other countries around the world, who are fighting to rid
themselves of exactly this kind of police state tyranny and mass surveillance.
To suggest “it couldn’t happen here” simply isn’t backed up by the facts.

Last week, President Obama went on television, to tell us with a straight face
that some of the speculation in the press and on-line about the kinds of data
that these laws allow the security services to collect are “far fetched”; that
the actual content of emails and phone calls are not monitored, and that there
is no program set-up for the wholesale monitoring of the American people.

But as anyone with even an ounce of understanding about how the internet
actually works will tell you, the so-called meta-data which the secret police
do admit to gathering, tells them far more about the ins and outs of our daily
lives than the content of our phone calls and the wording of our emails ever
could — because it contains geolocation data, timestamps, and the name of the
person sending the information — and since it is now against the secret law to
encrypt your communications, most SMS text messages, emails, instant messaging
and video conferencing is transmitted as plain text, which anyone with the
right equipment can intercept.

And even if a person accused under these secret laws of committing secret
crimes, on evidence which no judge or jury can ask to see is ever allowed into
a court of law to defend themselves, the security services do not need to
disclose any details of what they collected and why they collected it, but can
instead simply assert that it is within their legal remit to gather data in the
interest of national security, and the accused’s legal defence is forbidden
from asking anything more about it. It is their word against yours, and if you
don’t like it, enjoy your stay in prison.

The American people are proud of their constitution and the founding fathers
who wrote it. Just as we British are proud of our parliamentary democracy.
Indeed we’re all proud of the work which the vast majority of security
specialists carry out, to keep us safe from terrorists, and those who wish us
harm. But these secret laws can’t protect us from ourselves, and are quickly
turning us into the very thing we’re so desperate to avoid becoming.

The people who have implemented these secret laws are unpatriotic, money
grabbing, power hungry, paranoid puppet masters, with as little respect for
ordinary people as they have for themselves. They are the same cabal of
superrich, who protect their banker friends from criminal investigation into
the worldwide financial collapse, while funding Super PACs which put more poor
people into privately run prisons than any other country in the world. They are
the same low life who want to put you in jail for sharing music via BitTorrent,
while they issue letters to your Internet Service Provider, requesting your
private information to be handed over with no questions asked, which the ISP’s
aren’t even allowed to talk about to their own legal team.

But perhaps the most troubling part about all of this, is that these are
exactly the kinds of abuses which while still a US Senator Barack Obama warned
of, and expressed a wish to do something about. This can only mean one of two
things. The first possibility is that at some point shortly after becoming
President, Obama had certain information revealed to him which is so critical
to national security that it takes precedence over all other concerns, in which
case there is no longer any such thing as due legal process, and the American
government has become the very kind of domestic tyranny the founding fathers
warned us about. Or, two, the rich white men who own him have made it
abundantly clear to Obama that it’s called the American dream because you have
to be asleep to believe it. Either way, this is how empires come to an end.
This is how democracy dies.

Are you going to take it sitting down? Donate to Lavabit here and help Ladar
Levison take this all the way to the supreme court. Those who have tried in the
past have been silenced, and forced to settle out of court.

Support the mounting campaign to force Apple, Google, Microsoft and other
titans of the modern age to say publicly what everyone in the technology
industry is saying privately; that this is wrong, and we will not allow it to
happen. If we stop using FaceTime, and Skype, if we boycott GMail and Yahoo!,
if we tell the businesses whose entire fortunes rests upon our trusting them to
provide a secure and transparent service, that we’re mad as hell and we’re not
going to take it anymore, they will have no choice but to listen. They will be
on the side of their own customers, when it comes time to debate this issue at
the highest levels. They will use their power for the good of everyone, not
just the tiny minority who want to keep us frightened and silent.

It does not matter what your personal politics are. This is not a red team
versus a blue team issue. It is about defending democracy and the rule of law.
Write to your political leaders, and demand that they exercise their privilege
to speak on the floor of the house about this clear and dangerous abuse of
power — because the people who it affects have literally had their right to
speak about it taken away.

Rate this:

Share this:

  • Email
  • 
  • Tweet
  • 
  • Share on Tumblr
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
By Jim Gardner  Posted in Media and news
1
Jun 3 2013

Bilderberg Group meeting in Watford 2013

Viscount Davignon: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Étienne_Davignon

Viscount Davignon: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Étienne_Davignon

Considering the guest-list, it’s absolutely astonishing that the in’s and out’s
of what is discussed at meetings of the Bilderberg Group are never reported in
the media.

Of course this could always have something to do with the fact that those
involved spend more time working on their golf swing, or swigging back
expensive wines and spirits, than they do deciding which direction to take the
world in next — as is the mantra of those conspiracy theorists who rarely stop
to think that they themselves might be as much a part of the so-called New
World Order as the captains of industry who mingle with politicians at this
prestigious and secretive event every couple of years.

Whatever is on the agenda, it should only be right that our elected
representatives are held accountable for their involvement — who they met with
and what they talked about — especially if they’re billing the British tax
payer for that round of drinks which see newspaper proprietors exchange amusing
anecdotes about poor people with their criminal friends in big oil and gas.

But in a world where you can go to prison for sending a tweet, but not a single
banker who caused the global financial meltdown has been so much as arrested, I
don’t think we should hold our breath waiting for any of the people invited to
this years meeting of the Bilderberg Group, at the Grove Hotel, Watford, to
reveal too much about their involvement.

It is nice to see, however, that at least at this year’s event, there is an
area set aside for bloggers — although I can’t imagine any photographers will
be invited to wander the grounds, and take snaps of Saudi arms dealers shaking
hands with the head of Goldman Sachs — but that is the sort of meeting this is,
whether or not your inner skeptic is ready to accept the fact that this sort of
thing really does go on — pay no attention to the man behind the curtain, your
government is in control.

There is an excellent piece by Charlie Skelton in the Guardian here: http://
www.guardian.co.uk/world/2013/jun/02/week-ahead-bilderberg-2013-watford

..and you can follow Charlie on twitter here: https://twitter.com/deYook

Rate this:

Share this:

  • Email
  • 
  • Tweet
  • 
  • Share on Tumblr
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...
By Jim Gardner  Posted in Media and news  Tagged 2013, bilderberg, watford
20

Post navigation

← Older posts
Search [                    ] [Search]
Article Archive

Article Archive [Select Month         ]

All Topics

All Topics[Select Category                 ]

New comments are added to old threads all the time…

[cd] Will on BBC iPlayer bug continues to b…
[d8] prettygirl1973 on Political censorship and moder…
[5f] Chris on 10 facts of Darwinian evolutio…
[b8] Ed on Eric Hovind: Lies, damn lies a…
[86] Daryl on Contact information for Fox…
[bb] John on Majority of atheists are ex-Ch…
[67] Calvin Jose Palmer on Contact information for Fox…
[a7] Missy on Are you ready to find out just…
[0d] Elizabeth on BBC iPlayer bug continues to b…
[3a] BERNARD LILLER on Contact information for Fox…
[64] CM on Contact information for Fox…
[ce] palau pari on An incredible thing is happeni…
[pi] Mark Ketchum on Majority of atheists are ex-Ch…
[18] Durganand on Decrescent USB to HDMI convert…
[08] DOUG SWANSON on Contact information for Fox…

Fifty Recent Posts

  • An incredible thing is happening right now in protest of FCC plans to break
    the internet
  • Some things Matt Dillahunty should know about Sye ten Bruggencate
  • A word on Jason Burns latest “farewell” video
  • My debate notes, for the podcast with Jason Burns (that never was)
  • Secret Law, or this is how democracy dies.
  • Bilderberg Group meeting in Watford 2013
  • Why I switched from Apple iPhone to HTC One Android.
  • Why are you no longer an atheist?
  • It’s the beginning of the end for Eric Hovind’s Creation Ministries, as the
    poster child for anti-science Christian apologetics posts a video begging
    his supporters for cash
  • The empty tomb is bums on seats
  • Why did the Pope really resign?
  • Decrescent USB to HDMI converter on Mac OS X
  • PZ Myers, Thunderf00t and Rebecca Watson, sitting in a tree, k.i.s.s.i.n.g.
  • Happy increment in arbitrarily assigned date day
  • Majority of atheists are ex-Christians with a University education
  • The Leveson Report Complete PDF download
  • Dear Republicans. This is why you lost.
  • Sean Carroll – “From Particles to People”
  • Apple’s OS X Mountain Lion: A triumphant return to form
  • A Visualisation of Rhetological Fallacies
  • You can’t ban an idea
  • That which is true
  • Christian Accelerated Education pass Ofsted inspection despite Michael
    Gove’s opposition to teaching creationism in UK classrooms
  • There is a reason why they hated Christopher Hitchens
  • An open letter to non-crazy Christians
  • Never surrender
  • The beginning of the end for $ye ten Bruggencate
  • Sye ten Bruggencate: The turd that won’t flush
  • A long overdue reply to Ryft
  • I did a mini-cast
  • What he said
  • A reply to Sye’s latest blog
  • Nice to set the record straight
  • Dan Marvin has 24 hours to correct a factual inaccuracy about me on
    his blog
  • The lying game
  • David Fitzgerald: Examining the Existence of a Historical Jesus
  • Political censorship and moderator bias on reddit.com
  • The illusion of choice
  • Presuppositionalism: There’s a clue in the title
  • The Grand Parade of Lifeless Packaging
  • Are you ready to find out just how fucked we really are?
  • Free at the point of use
  • Occupy London bailiff drives into crowd of journalists while the police
    do nothing
  • Paradise
  • Welcome to Tory Britain
  • Forget SOPA & PIPA. ACTA is ten times worse and already on its way to
    being passed
  • Federal investigators in Virginia have closed down Megaupload.com
  • SOPA and PIPA are just the beginning. Here’s what comes next
  • A reply to Rick Warden’s “How Identity, Logic and Physics Prove God’s
    Existence”
  • Will any Christians accept my Science Sunday challenge?

@MovingToMontana | Twitter

Error: Twitter did not respond. Please wait a few minutes and refresh this
page.

Email Subscription

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of
new posts by email.

Join 1,753 other followers

[                    ]

[Sign me up!]

Blog at WordPress.com. | The iTheme2 Theme.
Follow

Follow “How good is that?”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,753 other followers

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address Your Name [                    ] Your Email Address 
[                         ]
loading [Send Email] Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:

[b]
