Skip to content
Bitchspot

  • About Bitchspot
      □ Brief History of Bitchspot
      □ Comment Policy
  • Bitchspot Channel on YouTube
  • Let’s Define Things
      □ Let’s Define Atheism
      □ Let’s Define Collecting
      □ Let’s Define Conservatism
  • Need a Guest Post?
  • Religious Horror Show

 

Assholes at McDonalds

January 11, 2016December 14, 2015 CephusAtheism

I don’t know what it is about the local McDonalds, but every single time I
swing by there in the morning to grab myself some breakfast, invariably I wind
up sitting near some wingnut religious asshole who, in an extremely loud voice
that everyone in the place can hear, pontificates to his friend about how […]






Horror Show Sunday: Acid Attacks Again

January 10, 2016December 22, 2015 CephusReligious Horror Show

The more things change, the more they stay the  same.  Yes, this is hardly the
first story of this kind that I’ve  done on Horror Show Sunday, but you’d think
that someone would get the message and force these religious animals to knock
it off but it never happens.  In Kabul, Afghanistan, attackers on a […]






Making Excuses for Religion

January 8, 2016December 12, 2015 CephusReligion

I always find it absurd how many people out there, religious and atheists
alike, will go to extreme lengths to make excuses for religion.  Religion is
never the cause of anything.  Religion is never to blame.  Most recently, this
has had to do with the San Bernardino terrorist mass shooting as I see people
jumping […]






You Can’t Demand My Approval

January 6, 2016December 10, 2015 CephusResponsibility

This is certainly a topic I’ve addressed in the past, but it keeps coming up
and people just don’t seem to get it.  In fact, this was the Main Event topic
for the final, albeit aborted, episode of season two of the podcast. That’s
really why I wanted to address it here because there are […]






What Happened to the Podcast?

January 4, 2016December 10, 2015 CephusAtheism

Yeah, I know it was sudden and I wanted to take a minute to discuss what
happened to the podcast.  As anyone who has listened of late knows, we’ve
missed quite a few shows due to scheduling conflicts, technical difficulties
and honestly, just not having the time to devote to the project that it really
[…]






Horror Show Sunday: Water into Breast Milk

January 3, 2016December 13, 2015 CephusReligious Horror Show

This is one of those stories that you could really feel sorry for, if it wasn’t
for the spiritual component.  Lauren Fristed wasn’t producing enough breast
milk to feed her newborn daughter Nevaeh and she and her husband were too poor
to purchase formula so they made the horrible decision to water down her breast
[…]






The Religious Horror Show Roundup

January 2, 2016January 1, 2016 CephusReligious Horror Show

Just a quick note, but since I had a little extra time this week, I went
through and updated my Religious Horror Show page. I hadn’t done it for about
2.5 months, I just haven’t had time, but as I was doing so, it seemed to me
that every single year, my list keeps getting […]






It’s Resolution Time!

January 1, 2016December 13, 2015 CephusPersonal

Every single year for the last couple, I’ve tried to put up some kind of New
Year’s Resolution, something that I think I can do better in the coming year,
particularly when it comes to my blogging and debating. Of course, every time I
do, I explain how I don’t do New Year’s Resolutions, how […]






Horror Show Thursday: Withstanding the Torture

December 31, 2015October 19, 2015 CephusReligious Horror Show

A mentally ill woman, mother of 8, living in Douar Beni Salah in the Tetouan
region of Morocco, went to visit a local religious wise man, called a ‘fqih’,
but instead of being healed of her problems, now she’s dead.  The ‘fqih’
decided she was possessed by the devil, and while reading passages from the
Qur’an, […]






Horror Show Wednesday: Pour Some Petrol On Me!

December 30, 2015October 19, 2015 CephusReligious Horror Show

Sometimes I think these stories of primitive religious horrors are even worse
than the ones that come from established semi-modern religions.  Yes, the more
modern religious believers ought to know better, but the people who fall into
these primitive religious beliefs have something more primal, something they
just feel inside that reason has nothing whatsoever […]






Horror Show Tuesday: Closer My Balls to Thee

December 29, 2015October 19, 2015 CephusReligious Horror Show

You’re not going to catch me doing this, but in India, 400 men, followers of
multi-millionaire religious guru Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, cut off their own
testicles in an attempt to get closer to God.  Well yeah, if you bleed to
death, you might get closer to “God”, but that’s about it. To date, only one
[…]






Horror Show Monday: Clamato is Against my Religion

December 28, 2015October 19, 2015 CephusReligious Horror Show

Now I’ve talked at length, especially on the podcast, about the modern move to
make anything acceptable if you attach “religious rights” to it.  This is an
example of this kind of thinking turned deadly.  In Hamilton, Montana, at the
Rainbow Bar, 59-year old Monte Hanson ordered a “red beer”, a beer with tomato
juice in […]






Horror Show Sunday: Leave the House and Fry!

December 27, 2015October 16, 2015 CephusReligious Horror Show

As long as we’re talking about Islam and burns, try this one on for size.  In
Pakistan, a man is charged with lighting his wife on fire in an honor killing
for daring to leave the house without permission.  Muhammad Siddique flew into
a rage when he found that his wife, Shabana Bibi, had gone to […]






Horror Show Saturday: Toss ’em Overboard

December 26, 2015October 16, 2015 CephusReligious Horror Show

Well, as we wind down to an end for 2015, I realize that I have way too many
Horror Show Sunday stories on my hands, a mere 63 in the queue as I write this,
and therefore, it’s time to fill the lull between Christmas and New Years with
a whole week of horrors done […]






Should Atheists Celebrate Christmas?

December 25, 2015November 20, 2015 CephusAtheism

This seems to be a perennial question that I honestly don’t get.  There are
some atheists out there who are convinced that no atheist ought to be
celebrating Christmas.  Why the heck not?  Christmas hasn’t been a religious
holiday for a very long time. It is entirely secular.  Christmas trees, Santa
Claus, mistletoe, presents and […]






Just What Is Religion?

December 23, 2015December 4, 2015 CephusReligion

This is actually a more difficult question than you might imagine, lots of
people with lots of agendas have reasons to claim that religion is many
different things.  I bring this up because in a recent debate, a fundamentalist
Christian kept insisting that atheism is a religion, which, of course, it is
not.  So I […]






CoE Mad About an Ad

December 21, 2015December 2, 2015 CephusReligion

Oh look, it’s the latest example of religious entitlement, this time coming out
of jolly old England.  The Church of England put together an advertisement that
would never get shown on television, but now they are expecting movie theaters
to show their ad and when theaters balked, they started crying it was a
violation of […]






Horror Show Sunday: Pastorly Porn

December 20, 2015October 16, 2015 CephusReligious Horror Show

I guess if you’re going to do something, go big or go home.  A church youth
group leader, Gregory Gibson, has been arrested in Baltimore with a stash of
kiddy porn so large, police are calling it the “most serious” case of child
pornography ever. 63-year old Gibson, father of four, and youth group leader
[…]






It’s Only Terrorism if it’s Not My Religion!

December 18, 2015November 29, 2015 CephusAtheism

Got into a shit storm recently with predictable results.  Someone posed the
question that if we have Muslim terrorism, that is terrorism that is performed
specifically in the name of and motivated by Islamic beliefs, are similar acts
performed by Christians, in the name of Christianity and motivated by Christian
belief, likewise terrorist.  Now clearly, […]






Pastor Blames Paris Victims

December 16, 2015November 24, 2015 CephusReligion

Ah, Pastor Steven Anderson.  Poor, deluded, laughable Pastor Steven Anderson.
 I’ve done a YouTube video on this idiot in the past, but now he’s come out
criticizing Paris terrorist attack victims for attending a death metal concert.
 What a guy! Of course, he has no clue of which he speaks because the band in
question, […]






Why Do These People Have Jobs?

December 14, 2015December 14, 2015 CephusGay Marriage

Seriously, I have to keep wondering, and this is almost always in the deep
south, but why do these idiots have jobs? Why do the people in the south keep
electing these morons to represent them?  Okay, yes, the reason is because
the voters are just as stupid as they representatives they elect, but I’m
really getting […]






Horror Show Sunday: Demons Don’t Eat

December 13, 2015October 15, 2015 CephusReligious Horror Show

Aracely Meza, 49, church vice president of the Iglesia Internacional Jesus es
el Rey church near Dallas, Texas, and self-proclaimed prophet who routinely
communicates directly with God, was arrested and charged with injury to a child
causing serious bodily injury by omission. She and other pastors at the church
are charged with keeping a 2-year old child […]






The Stupidity of Gun Control

December 11, 2015November 8, 2015 CephusCrazies

This kind of stuff is rampant among the left, and I know that I’m saying a lot
about the left recently, but a lot of this garbage has come floating to the
surface recently.  This is probably no more true when it comes to the gun
banning arguments that the liberals make, particularly following
well-publicized […]






Millennials Don’t Value Free Speech

December 9, 2015November 23, 2015 CephusLiberalism

I guess we shouldn’t be at all surprised,  especially in light of the recent
posts I’ve done on modern college education and the demands that free speech be
squelched, but now it’s official, a recent study has shown that 40% of
millennials, people aged 18-34, actually support the government censoring
things that they think are […]






We Don’t Need No Stinking Edumacation!

December 7, 2015November 20, 2015 CephusEducation

Yeah, okay, it’s Texas and we know Texas isn’t that hot, but with the sorry
state of education in the state, you’d think they’d be looking for all of the
help they could get.  But of course, you’d be wrong.  Instead, in the latest
textbook debacle the state has been involved in, where their books […]






Horror Show Sunday: Muslim Educational Massacre

December 6, 2015October 4, 2015 CephusReligious Horror Show

I wish I could go a week without seeing reports of Islamic violence, but it
doesn’t seem to be the case. What’s worse, this happened 8-9 months ago in the
real world and there have been so many horrors out there, it’s taken me this
long to get to it! It really is horrible how […]






Posts navigation

Older posts

The Bitchspot Report Podcast

Where Atheism & Conservatism Collide Where Atheism & Conservatism Collide

Cephus’ Corner

[Cephus-Corner-Icon] Because I Gotta Geek

Search the Blog

Search for: [Search]
Follow Us!

Follow Us on Google+Follow Us on TwitterFollow Us on TumblrFollow Us on RSS
Follow Us on E-mailFollow Us on RedditFollow Us on StumbleUponFollow Us on
FacebookFollow Us on Atheist NexusFollow Us on The Bitchspot Report

Subscribe to Blog via Email

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of
new posts by email.

Email Address

[Subscribe]

Meta

  • Log in
  • Entries RSS
  • Comments RSS
  • WordPress.org

Bitchroll

[Links of Interest                    ]

Bitchy Categories

Bitchy Categories[Select Category             ]
 
Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Amadeus by Themeisle.
