Rad Geek People’s Daily

official state media for a secessionist republic of one

This site is designed to be accessible by any web device. It looks best in
those that support web standards.

This is a page from the Rad Geek People’s Daily weblog, which has been written
and maintained by Charles Johnson at radgeek.com since 2004.

[Go] advanced search
Morality and Atheism (posted 29 January 1998, 9am / revised 6am 26 March 2007)

This essay was co-authored by Ed. Stoebenau and Charles Johnson, based on an
earlier version that dates back to some time in 1997. The views expressed in
the first part of the essay are no longer the views of the author of that part
(Charles Johnson); indeed, his views are now almost precisely the opposite of
those expressed. —C.J., 27 May 2002.

One claim that theists make often in #atheism is that one cannot both accept
atheism and objective moral standards at the same time. They feel that at least
one of these two views is true: objective moral standards prove that God
exists, or that if there is not a God, then there cannot be objective moral
standards. This paper serves a few purposes. First, it directly shows that
there are differing views on morality between atheists. One of the writers is a
moral subjectivist; the other is a moral objectivist. In the first half,
Charles Johnson defends a subjective view of morality. In the second half, Ed.
Stoebenau defends a view that atheism and objective morality are consistent;
one can accept both and still be ration in these respects. This paper shows
that the moral argument for theism can be defeated in both of its premises:
either there are not objective moral standards or they do not need to be from a
deity.

Moral Subjectivism

The first response to the theist’s question is to question why a totally
objective moral code is necessary or even superior to a subjective one.
Granted, the ethos of most societies have a few universal elements. Some of
these include taboos against murder and theft (although definitions of
justification for killing and confiscation of property may differ from society
to society) and against incest. Beyond these, however, morality seems to vary
from society to society and from individual to individual. The subjectivist
view is that these are due purely to differences in personality between
societies in general and between individuals in particular, and because of
this, no more objective than taste preferences or impressions of beauty. Many
atheists feel that moral codes that are subjective to one degree or another are
the way morals should be and in fact are treated.

At this point, the theist may well inquire why there is any degree of
universality to moral codes. This conclusion can be arrived at in both a moral
objectivist and a moral subjectivist perspective without calling in gods by
examining how certain behaviors affect animal populations. To analyze behaviors
from this evolutionary perspective, it is highly beneficial to consider the
concept of the `meme,' as pioneered by noted evolutionary biologist Richard
Dawkins. A meme is, in short, an idea, thought, or memory which replicates
itself from mind to mind (some refer to the mind which the meme inhabits as a
`host'). By separating the replication process of the meme from its host, we
can thus draw an analogy between the neo-Darwinian conception of the `selfish
gene' and the replication of beliefs. Because moral systems are usually
indoctrinated into children as part of the socialization process, it should be
clear that ethos can thus be analyzed memetically, and therefore we can apply
the basic principles of evolutionary biology to forge a useful tool for seeking
out the roots of morality, through sociobiology. For example, consider murder,
theft, and incest, three taboos which are commonly brought up in arguments of
this sort.

Murder and theft are demonstrably harmful to animals that live together in
communities (gregarious animals). If a animals in a group go about killing one
another and do not have some non-arbitrary code of offenses, to be known and
avoided, which merit death, then they will not tend to survive very long in
groups. In order to survive, any gregarious species must develop reactions
against behavior detrimental to the group. Although genetics would be one
possible route, it is fairly infeasible to consider genes as a source for
ideas. Thus, a meme complex which promotes a general abhorrence for murder is
superior from a survival standpoint to a lack thereof in gregarious animals,
and such a trait would be preferred in natural selection. Theft is a natural
extension of the same reasoning; by unjustified confiscation of property from
one’s neighbors, an organism creates animosity against it, so a general concern
for the rights of one’s neighbors is genetically superior for gregarious
animals. This leads to a more generalized trait, which could cover murder,
theft, rape, and a number of other moral taboos.

The taboos against incest are also easily explainable from the perspective of
evolution: heavy inbreeding, especially between close relatives, reduces the
genetic diversity of a population, which makes the population as a whole more
susceptible to extinction when their ecosystem is disturbed. For instance, in a
highly homogenous population, if a particular disease to which the population
is particularly susceptible strikes, the chances are good that it may well wipe
out most or all of the breeding population. Also, genetic homogeny increases
the likelihood that damaging recessive traits (almost all non-neutral recessive
traits are harmful) will be expressed. A good example of this phenomenon can be
found in the heavily inbred royal families of Europe, where the genetic
disorder hemophilia (caused by a recessive gene on the X chromosome) became
widespread to the extent that it was considered a `royal disease.' In the wild,
hemophilia would be extremely disadvantageous, and the inbred individuals would
probably be selected out of existence within a few generations. Therefore, in
general, natural selection favors those organisms which do not inbreed heavily,
or preferably, at all.

One of the advantages of this evolutionary analysis of morality is that, since
it is derived from principles of biology, it may be evaluated as any other
scientific theory, in terms of how well it fits observed data and how its
predictions of further results hold up against observation. An example of such
a verified prediction would be as follows: in more interdependent animal
societies, social order is more important to social survival than in less
interdependent societies. Therefore, in general societal interdependence should
correlate positively with altruistic behavior—the more order is critical, the
higher the selection pressure in favor of behavior which benefits the group
over the individual. A verification of this can be seen by observing colonial
insects and comparing altruistic tendencies to less tightly-knit social
animals—say, humans. Colonial insects such as honeybees routinely sacrifice
their lives for the betterment of the hive. While altruism is often exalted as
a heroic ideal in human societies, it is not in any way expected, instinctual
behavior as in colonial insects.

This evolutionary approach is, of course, not the only philosophical
explanation for commonality in morals within an atheistic worldview. For
example, the popular atheist philosophy of Objectivism, founded by Ayn Rand,
believes strongly in moral objectivism based in philosophy and logic, and
attributes morality to the fundamental truth or falsity of a statement, a
property of the Universe itself. To Objectivists, those actions which are
rational and those beliefs which are true, are good; those actions which are
irrational and those beliefs which are false are evil. In the introduction to
The Virtue of Selfishness, Rand elaborates:

    The Objectivist ethics holds that the actor must always be the beneficiary
    of his action and that man must act for his own rational self-interest. But
    the right to do so is derived from his nature as man and from the function
    of moral values in human life—and therefore, is applicable only in the
    context of a rational, objectively demonstrated and validated code of moral
    principles which define and determine his actual self-interest. It is not a
    license `to do as he pleases' and it is not applicable to the altruists’
    image of a `selfish' brute nor to any man motivated by irrational emotions,
    feelings, urges, wishes, or whims. (ix)

Moral Objectivism

Having considered the counterpoints to the theist’s question, we can finally
address the arguments that he has brought up. On the first argument, let us
assume that there are objective moral standards. What other premises then,
would we need to prove that God exists? Obviously, we would need a premise like
`if there are objective moral standards, then God exists.' But this premise is
too question begging to accept in an argument. To add more steps, let’s try
`moral standards can only come about by decree.' We can also add `to be
objective, a standard must come from an absolute supreme source.' Furthermore,
we must also use `The only absolute supreme source is God.' Then, we can
conclude that if there is an objective morality, than God exists. But are the
premises sound for this argument? Again, there is good reason in thinking they
are not. The last is non-debatable. The second depends on the soundness of the
first, for if standards do not need a standard-giver, than neither do objective
standards need an absolute objective standard. The first falls to the Euthyphro
objection. Standards by decree cannot be objective, because they presuppose the
objectivity of the standard giver, but if the standards come from such a
source, they cannot be objective because there is no reason to believe that a
standard-giver would give objective standards, without assuming external
objective standards. So external standards are needed, and the first argument
fails.

The second argument is that if there is not a God, than there cannot be
objective morality. Even ignoring the Euthyphro objection for the most part,
for the theist’s argument to succeed, he would need to claim that `if God
exists, than there is a God-given morality,' and that `if there is a God-given
morality, than there are objective moral standards.' Furthermore, `if there is
a God-given morality, than God exists.' He also assumes that `if God does not
exist, then there is not a God-given morality.' Of these premises, the last two
are obviously true, the second we will assume to be true because of ignoring
the Euthyphro problem, and we assume the first is also true, even though it is
not necessary (for example, the deist’s God might well not care a whit about
human morality). However, from the premise that God does not exist, all we can
conclude is that there is not a God-given morality. We cannot conclude that
there are not objective moral standards, because we do not have a premise of
either `If there is not a God-given morality, than there are not objective
moral standards,' or `If there are objective moral standards, than there is a
God-given morality.' The second of these was shown to be false in the first
part, and there is no non-question-begging reason to assume the first to be
true, as this would beg the question for a divine command theory of morality.

Some theists, especially Calvinist Christians object to this argument because
it is not divine commands which form objective morality, but rather the divine
nature of God. But what would be the case if the nature of God were the
standards of morality, assuming that God exists? It would mean that
omnibenevolence would only mean `God is what God is.' While it is certainly
true that God is what God is, it is not the case that omnibenevolence is just
what God is. Omnibenevolence itself presupposes that there is an independent
standard by which God is morally perfect; to deny this denies any meaning to
the word. So this argument also does not give any reason why an atheist should
not accept an objective morality.

There is also, in my opinion, a conclusive argument that objective morality and
atheism are logically consistent: it is the deductive problem of evil. This can
be shown by the following proof of consistency, where `⋄' means `it is
logically possible that,' and `→' is strict implication.

    if [⋄(A & C) & (A & C) → B], then ⋄(A & B)

It must be noted that neither A, B, or C need be true; they only need to be
possible. Now let us let A be `there is an objective morality,' B mean `there
does not exist a deity' and C mean `the amount of evil in the world is so much
that God does not exist.' Now it is certainly the case that even if one does
not exist that an objective morality is possible, and so is it possible, even
if it is not the case, that the amount of evil in the world is so much that God
does not exist. It is also the case that A and C in this case are consistent:
it is possible that there is an objective morality and there is a large amount
of evil in this world. But as these two premises together imply that God does
not exist, then it must be the case that atheism and moral objectivity are
consistent.

Bibliography

Memetics and evolutionary origins of ethics:

  • Dawkins, Richard: The Selfish Gene
  • Principia Cybernetica Project: Journal of Memetics - Evolutionary Models of
    Information Transmission
  • Principia Cybernetica Project: A Lexicon of Memetics

Theistic and atheistic origins of ethics:

  • Craig, William Lane: The Indispensability of Theological Meta-ethical
    Foundations for Morality
  • Fieser, James: Divine Command Theory, from The Internet Encyclopedia of
    Philosophy
  • Kurtz, Paul: Forbidden Fruit: The Ethics of Humanism
  • Mackie, J. L.: Ethics: Inventing Right and Wrong
  • Martin, Michael: Atheism, Christian Theism, and Rape
  • Nielsen, Kai: Ethics without God
  • Rand, Ayn: The Virtue of Selfishness
  • Vuletic, Mark: Is Atheism Consistent With Morality?

Notes

Note 1: For this paper, the following terms should be differentiated with
respect to morality: objectivism, subjectivism, relativism, and absolutism.
Moral objectivism is just the view that morality is objective: there is such a
thing and it does not depend on how it is perceived. Moral subjectivism is the
view that there is not an objective morality: moral codes depend on the
perceptions of the persons. It should be noted that moral subjectivism does not
necessarily lead to moral anarchy, the view that anything goes. Moral
relativism, while generally considered to be synonymous with subjectivism, is
just the view that the morality of an action is not just an either/or thing:
there are degrees to right and wrong. Moral absolutism has two differing
meanings. In its first form, it is just the view that morality is universal,
and so is a subset of objectivism. In its other form it is a view that there
are not degrees of right and wrong; there are no `shades of gray.' A moral
objectivist can be a relativist or an absolutist of either form, and even a
relativist and an absolutist of the first form. A subjectivist can hold that
someone can be any of the relativists or absolutists. ↩

Note 2: Although there is plenty of debate in the field of aesthetics as to
whether beauty is objective or subjective, I think we can agree that
impressions thereof are fairly subjective. ↩

Note 3: Be sure to note the difference between Objectivists, adherents to the
philosophical system founded by Ayn Rand, and moral objectivists, adherents to
the philosophical position that morality is independent of the individual. Keep
in mind that all Objectivists are moral objectivists, but not all moral
objectivists are Objectivists. ↩

Note 4: Rand, Ayn. Introduction. The Virtue of Selfishness. New York: Signet
Books, 1964. vii-xi. ↩

Note 5: The problem of evil given here does not need to be sound. All needed
for this argument are the possibilities of the statements. An atheist can be
consistent in believing that the deductive problem of evil is unsuccessful and
that it can be used to show the logical consistency between atheism and moral
objectivism. ↩

  • —Rad Geek

Advertisement

Help me get rid of these Google ads with a gift of $10^.00 towards this month’s
operating expenses for radgeek.com. See Donate for details. Donate *

3 replies to Morality and Atheism Use a feed to Follow replies to this article

 1. []Jennifer Brock /# 5am • 1 Feb 2007

    I am not trained in the technicalities of formal logic and argumentation.
    However, your paper doesn’t address how one moves from what simply is
    (naturalistic universe, selfish genes, what is necessary for survival) to
    the universal sense of “oughtness”. Your paper seems to argue that
    “morality” is only what is helpful for survival.

    This is not the Christian sense (or even the sense of the atheist crusading
    for human rights, environmental protection, and so on) of morality. “Wrong”
    is not merely something that is unhelpful to the species in these
    instances, but a violation of something in humanity that is objectively,
    universally, almost sacredly, inviolate.

    Follow Up

. November 2007 .

 1. [b8]moshe averick /# 11pm • 13 Nov 2007

    the Euthyphro argument as a challenge to Monotheism, is really nothing more
    than philosphical sleight of hand. Plato was speaking about pagan “gods”,
    in his dialogue, which are really the same things as The Flash or Superman.

    I recently wrote an article entitled, “The Euthyphro Argument: A
    Philosophical Dinosaur.” I hope that within a month it will be posted on
    the NISHMA website. In the meantime, anyone who would like to read the
    article, please email me at , and I will send you the article as a WORD
    attachment.

    Follow Up

— 2010 —

 1. [56]Matt /# 8pm • 30 Nov 2010

    Now it is certainly the case that even if one does not exist that an
    objective morality is possible,

    Not obvious to me this is correct, some moral principles are such that if
    they are true they are necessarily true. I.e the principle its wrong to
    inflict suffering on another for no reason at all. But then if objectively
    true principles exist in one possible world they exist in all and if they
    do not exist in the actual world they exist in none.

    and so is it possible, even if it is not the case, that the amount of evil
    in the world is so much that God does not exist.

    Again doubtful, most conceptions of God are such that he has necessary
    existence hence a theist would be commited to claiming there are no
    possible worlds where the amount of evil is enough to show God does not
    exist.

    Moreover, there is the distinction between moral and natural evil in most
    versions of the problem of evil. Hence, even if there is a world where say
    pain and suffering is so great that it shows God does not exist it does not
    follow that objectively true moral principles exist in this world. It could
    simply be natural and not moral evil that is being utilised.

    Follow Up

Cancel this reply

Post a reply

By: 
Name: [                                   ]
E-mail:
  Your e-mail address will not be published.
Website:
You can register for an account and sign in to verify your identity and avoid
spam traps. [Sign in with OpenID…] [Sign in…]
Reply

Use Markdown syntax for formatting. *emphasis* = emphasis, **strong** = strong,
[link](http://xyz.com) = link,
> block quote to quote blocks of text.

[                                        ] 
[                                        ] 
[                                        ] 
[                                        ] 
[                                        ] 
[                                        ] 
[                                        ] 
[                                        ] 
[                                        ] 
[                                        ] 
[                                        ] 
[                                        ] 
[                                        ] 
[                                        ] 
[                                        ] 
This form is for public comments. Consult About: Comments for policies and
copyright details. [Post your reply]


[no-copyrig] Anticopyright. This was written 1998–2007 by Charles Johnson. Feel
free to reprint if you like it. This machine kills intellectual monopolists.

  • Home
  • About
  • Projects
  • Elsewhere
  • Site Map
  • Contact

Go On

  • << Back
    The Ontological Argument: an assessment
  • Next >>
    The Argument from Design
  • Ethics ∙ Metaphysics ∙ Old Time Religion ∙ Philosophy ∙ Retcon

Support

 Flattr this
or
Donate *

Via PayPal

Donations keep the Rad Geek People's Daily running. See Donate for details.

I speak only for myself in the Rad Geek People's Daily, not necessarily for any
patrons, sponsors, clients or institutions.

Coalitions of the Willing

  • Abortion on Demand and Without Apology
  • Anarchoblogs
  • Feminist Blogs
  • LeftLibertarian.org

About

  • radgeek.com is a long-running weblog written by Charles W. Johnson, an
    individualist anarchist writer living and working in Auburn, Alabama. [more
    ]

  • This site is designed to be accessible for any web device, including
    text-only browsers and browsers with aids for users with visual or motor
    disabilities. For details, see the accessibility statement for radgeek.com.

  • Industrial Workers of the World

