Atheist Mom

Recovering from religion…one baby step at a time.

[header2]

  • About Atheist Mom

Evolution of Ignorance

Posted by AtheistMom on February 6, 2014
Posted in: Atheism, Reason, Uncategorized. Tagged: America, atheism,
Frustration, funny, neo-atheists, reason, School, science. 6 Comments

When I used to read things or hear things about creationists and all the
totally illogical arguments for their position, I would laugh. Sometimes I
would get angry at how stupid these people clearly were. How could they
seriously not understand, for example, that us being related to “monkeys” does
not preclude monkeys from still existing? I chalked it up to wilful ignorance
and a church that filled their heads with fluff instead of substance. I feel
differently now.

Recently, Bill Nye debated Ken Ham, a celebrated creationist about the merits
of evolution over intelligent design. (Here is the video of that exchange).
There are many who believe these debates do nothing but legitimize creationism
by putting it on an equal footing with evolution, and that’s an interesting
point. But not one I’m going to dwell on at the moment.

At the debate, a writer for BuzzFeed asked self-identifying creationists what
questions they would ask Bill Nye to make him reconsider his position. This is
the result:

creation

(You can see all 22 pictures here.)

So the answer to this guy’s question is obviously, “Yes”. Yes, it is illogical
to think trees erupted from the ground at the age of 87.  Yes, it is illogical
to believe that the first man was actually, well, a man.

The questions still drove me crazy but this time, I looked beyond the
questions. I looked at the faces of the people holding these silly signs. They
look nice, kind, funny. They look like they could be my friends, my mother
or…me. And it made me sad.

These people have been misinformed. They have been neglected. How is it
possible that these people, who all presumably went through a public school
system, can be lacking such basic critical thinking skills? These people are
not stupid – they truly don’t understand that they are missing major pieces of
information. That in this world, like it or not, there exist some facts. That
not everything can be debated just because you want to debate it. That 1+1=2.
End of story. There are natural laws and fossils and evidence and measurable
facts. There is a lot of skill in being able to deconstruct an argument or a
statement and then critically analyze what is in front of you. It should be a
skill we all learn. Whether we use that skill to assess claims on the back of a
bottle of diet pills, or to follow a linear argument to a certain conclusion,
we would all be better off for having that skill. Does it mean we would all
agree? No. But it would certainly heighten the quality of the conversation. And
then maybe all those nice people wouldn’t look so dumb.

Kids and Equality

Posted by AtheistMom on April 10, 2013
Posted in: Other, Parenting, Reason. Tagged: equality, family, gay rights, kids
, reason, thoughts. 6 Comments

On several different occasions, Paisley and I have talked about what it means
to be gay. We took her to the Pride parade last year and she’s overheard us
having conversations about different things. I told her that it means a man
loves a man, or a woman loves a woman in the same way that Mommy and Daddy love
each other. She has accepted the idea without judgement or confusion. She’s
only five but without the social or cultural context she just sort of embraced
it and moved on. I realize that as she gets older there will be more
conversations, but I also think (hope) that by the time she is a teenager, it
won’t be a big del. Already in my own lifetime, I have seen incredible steps
taken towards equality and I can only assume that will continue.

The other day I was reading the newspaper and Paisley peered over my shoulder,
“What is that picture of Mom?” It was a picture of a protest. Angry people were
holding up posters printed with homophobic slurs. They were protesting gay
marriage. I tried to explain to Paisley that some people don’t want gays to get
married. She didn’t understand, “Why not?” I didn’t really have a good answer.
So I tried to explain that for a long time, gay people had to hide away. That
they couldn’t tell people who they really were or love who they loved. She
found the entire idea hard to grasp and very sad, “But you should just be who
you are, right Mom?”

I found it very interesting that homosexuality was a concept both easily
explained and understood,but that we both struggled with understanding the
hatred that so often accompanies it.

I guess it’s not really that complicated at all.

Paisley_Pride

 

Time Marches On…

Posted by AtheistMom on March 11, 2013
Posted in: Parenting, Uncategorized. Tagged: family, kids, miscarriage,
motherhood, thoughts. 4 Comments

I’ve been spending a lot of time lately trying to figure out what I want to do
with my life. It’s a tough choice. It’s even tougher when you’re 35 years old
and a mother of two. Those realities don’t necessarily limit your option, but
they sure do define them. I feel tired these days. Not of life (never of life)
but of trying to become what and who I want.

Paisley turned five in January. Five seemed like a big one to me. She starts
kindergarten next fall and is turning into a big kid right before my eyes.
Parenting is bittersweet – you want them to grow up. I mean, that is the
objective. You want them to be healthy and eventually, a fully-functioning
adult. And yet, there are days where you just want them to stop. This age, and
every age before it, has been a study in wonder and innocence. Paisley is
creative without knowing it. She is sweet and gentle without feeling
vulnerable. She is joyous without the anchoring regard for what others around
her might think. She will dance naked in the living room and feel nothing but
sheer jubilation. She goes to sleep each night with peace and a sense of
security. She looks at the world with awe and a sense of wonder and reverence.
She loves with abandon and tells you “Don’t do that!” when she doesn’t like
something. She has a lot to teach me.

IMG_3352

It has been a long fall. We had a miscarriage (that’s 7 pregnancies in total
now) in October that has left my life a little topsy-turvy. I had a d&c that,
as it turns out, wasn’t succesful so my hormones have been crazy. The doctor
put me on Misoprostol and that lovely little process has only just finished.
Hoping we can get a clear ultrasound next week and just put that behind us. As
for the other after-effects of this pregnancy, who knows. Shortly after the
miscarriage, my hubby informed me that he is now 100% sure he does not want
another baby. I came out even more sure than I had been going in to this that I
desperately do want another baby. Love can build a bridge but it can’t span
this divide I’m afraid. The respectful but exhausting debate rages on. I get
where he is coming from. He gets where I am coming from but neither one of us
seems able to cross the line. Any experience with this one?

Posted by AtheistMom on September 7, 2012
Posted in: Uncategorized. Leave a comment

Richard Dawkins Red Chair Interview

Pro-choice…

Posted by AtheistMom on September 6, 2012
Posted in: Atheism, Religion. Tagged: atheism, do you say something?, faith,
family, Frustration, mental gymnastics, Mormon, mormons, optimism, reason,
religion, thoughts. 10 Comments

I have always been a big believer in the right to choose. And I’m not talking
about abortion. (As a sidenote, as an extension of my belief in choice, I also
happen to be pro-choice pro-choice. Glad we cleared that up.) I see so many
people claiming to have made a choice in one way or another, when really
they’ve hardly considered the other options at all. Being unaware or
ill-informed about one side of an issue does not lead to choice – it leads to
dogma. Continue Reading

A Baseball Team from Heaven…

Posted by AtheistMom on September 4, 2012
Posted in: Atheism, Parenting, Religion. Tagged: family, kids, mormons,
motherhood, parenting, thoughts. 9 Comments

Deciding to have a child was an easy choice for me to make. I always knew that
I eventually wanted to have kids and I was excited to become a Mom. Number two
was also an easy choice because I had never really entertained the idea of
having an only child. Now we are faced with the decision to have more or stick
with two and it’s proving to be a tough decision for me (and my hubby).
Continue Reading

A letter to your child…

Posted by AtheistMom on August 24, 2012
Posted in: Atheism, Parenting, Reason. Tagged: atheism, family, kids,
motherhood, neo-atheists, reason, religion, science, secular. 7 Comments

For once I will actually believe anyone who says they are reading Playboy for
the articles! This interview with Richard Dawkins is a good read and will arm
any atheist with enough information to refute a number of silly claims.

Several years ago, Richard Dawkins wrote his then-ten-year-old daughter a
letter. In the letter he explains the importance of evidence and outlines three
bad reasons to believe a statement is true (tradition, authority and
revelation). Like most things that Dawkins writes, it is clear, concise and
convincing. He is obviously passionate about reason and science and instilling
these values in his child

Continue Reading

Posts navigation

← Older Entries

  • Atheist Mom

    [head1]
  • 
    Fear believes - courage doubts. Fear falls upon the earth and prays -
    courage stands erect and thinks. Fear is barbarism - courage is
    civilization. Fear believes in witchcraft, in devils and in ghosts. Fear is
    religion, courage is science.
    —Robert Ingersoll
  • Search for: [                    ] [Search]
  • Recent Posts

      □ Evolution of Ignorance
      □ Kids and Equality
      □ Time Marches On…
      □ 526
      □ Pro-choice…
  • 

    2011 2012 abortion agnostic America atheism Aurora Book BYU Catholic
    catholics Christmas church community conservatives creation current events
    death do you say something? Easter equality evolution faith family
    Frustration funny gay rights George Tiller health reform heaven Hitch HPV
    id Ignorance kids larry king leaving the church Mary MCAT mental gymnastics
    MIL miscarriage mission morality Mormon mormons motherhood neo-atheists
    news obama Occam's Razor optimism Paisley parenting politics prayer
    prevenient grace reason religion School science Scientology secular Sunday
    TED thoughts video violence
  • Blogroll

      □ Atheist Underworld
      □ Deity Shmeity
      □ ExMormon.org
      □ I am an Ex Mormon
      □ Jessica Ahlquist
      □ Pharyngula
      □ The Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster
      □ The Friendly Athiest
      □ The Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science
      □ The Thinking Atheist

Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. The Parament Theme.
Atheist Mom
Blog at WordPress.com. The Parament Theme.
Follow

Follow “Atheist Mom”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 68 other followers

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
