skip to main | skip to sidebar

Atheism: Proving The Negative

Analyses of God beliefs, atheism, religion, faith, miracles, evidence for
religious claims, evil and God, arguments for and against God, atheism,
agnosticism, the role of religion in society, and related issues.

Friday, June 19, 2015

Why Would an AI System Need Phenomenal Consciousness?

In my last post on Jesse Prinz, we learned about the distinction between
immediate, phenomenal awareness in consciousness in contrast to our more
deliberative consciousness that operates with the contents of short term and
longer term memory.  From moment to moment in our experience, there are mental
contents in our awareness.  Not all of those contents make it into the global
workspace and become available to reflective, deliberative thought, memory, or
other cognitive functions.  That is, there are contents in phenomenal awareness
that are experienced, and then they are just lost.  They cease to be anything
to you, or part of the continuous narrative of experience that you reconstruct
in later moments because they never make it to the neural processes that would
capture them and make them available to you at later times.  

We also know that these contents of phenomenal consciousness are also most
closely associated with the qualitative feels from our sensory periphery.  That
is, phenomenal awareness is filled with the smells, tastes, colors, feels, and
sounds of our sensory inputs.  Phenomenal awareness is filled with what some
philosophers call qualia. 

Let me add to this account and see what progress we can make on the question of
building a conscious AI system. 


Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky got the Nobel Prize for their work uncovering
what they call Dual Process Theory in the human mind.  We possess a set of
quick, sloppy cognitive functions called System 1, and a more careful, slower
more deliberative set of functions called System 2.  


System 1                                               System 2
Unconscious reasoning                                  Conscious reasoning
Judgments based on intuition                           Judgments based on critical examination
Processes information quickly                          Processes information slowly
Hypothetical reasoning                                 Logical reasoning
Large capacity                                         Small capacity
Prominent in animals and humans                        Prominent only in humans
Unrelated to working memory                            Related to working memory
Operates effortlessly and automatically                Operates with effort and control
Unintentional thinking                                 Intentional thinking
Influenced by experiences, emotions, and memories      Influenced by facts, logic, and evidence
Can be overridden by System 2                          Used when System 1 fails to form a logical/acceptable
                                                       conclusion
Prominent since human origins                          Developed over time
Includes recognition, perception, orientation, etc.    Includes rule following, comparisons, weighing of
                                                       options, etc.

In short, System 1 makes gains in speed for what it sacrifices in accuracy, and
System 2 gives up speed for a reduction in errors. 

The evolutionary influences that led to this bifurcation are fairly widely
agreed upon.  System 1 gets us out of difficulties when action has to be taken
immediately so we don’t get crushed by a falling boulder, fall from the edge of
a precipice, eaten by a charging predator, or smacked in the head by a flying
object.  But when time and circumstance allows for rational deliberation, we
can think things through, make longer term plans, strategize, problem solve,
and so on. 

An AI system, depending on its purpose, need not be similarly constrained.  An
AI system may not need to have both sets of functions.  And the medium of
construction of an AI system may not require tradeoffs to such an extent. 
Transmission time for conduction across neural cells is about 150 meters per
second.  By the time the information about the baseball that is flying at you
gets through your optic nerve, through the V1 visual cortex, and up to the
pre-frontal lobe for serious contemplation, the ball has already hit you in the
head.  Transmission time for silicon circuitry is effectively the speed of
light.  We may not have to give up accuracy for speed to such an extent. 
Evolution favored false positives over false negatives in the construction of
many systems.  It’s better to mistake a boulder for a bear, as they say, than a
bear for a boulder.  A better safe than sorry strategy is more favorable to
your contribution to the gene pool for the species in many cases.  We need not
give up accuracy for speed with AI systems, and we need not construct them to
make the systematic errors we do. 

The neural processes that are monitoring the multitude of inputs from my
sensory periphery are hidden from the view of my conscious awareness.  The
motor neurons that fire, the sodium ions that traverse the cell membranes, the
neurotransmitters that cross the synaptic gaps when I move my arm are not
events that I can see, or detect in any fashion as neural events.  I experience
them as the sensation of my arm moving.  From my perspective, moving my arm
feels one way.  But the neural chemical events that are physically responsible
are not available to me as neural chemical events.  A particular amalgam of
neural-chemical events from my perspective tastes like sweetness, or hurts like
a pin prick, or looks like magenta.  It would appear that evolution stumbled
upon this sort of condensed, shorthand monitoring system to make fast work of
categorizing certain classes of phenomenal experience for quick reference and
response.  If the physical system in humans is capable of producing qualia that
are experiencable from the subject’s point of view (It’s important to note that
whether qualia are even real things is a hotly debated question  

http://www.fflch.usp.br/df/opessoa/Dennett-Quining-Qualia.pdf)

then presumably a physical AI system could be built that generates them too. 
Not even the fiercest epiphenomenalist, or modern property dualist denies mind/
brain dependence.  But a legitimate question is, do we want or need to build an
AI system with them?  What would be the purpose, aside from intellectual
curiosity, of building qualia into an AI system?  If AI systems can be better
designed than the systems that evolution built, and if AI systems need not be
constrained by the tradeoffs, processing speed limitations, or other
compromises that led to the particular character of human consciousness, then
why put them in there? 








1 COMMENTS [icon18_ema] ● Posted by Matt McCormick at 1:31 PM Links to this
post

Monday, June 8, 2015

Artificial Intelligence and Conscious Attention--Jesse Prinz's AIR theory of
Consciousness

Jesse Prinz has argued for that consciousness is best understood as mid-level
attention.

Is Attention Necessary and Sufficient for Consciousness?

The Conscious Brain: How Attention Engenders Experience

Consciousness, Prinz argues, is best understood as mid-level attention.  

Low level representers in the brain are neurons that perform simple
discrimination tasks such as edge or color detection.  They are activated early
on in the process of stimuli from the sensory periphery. 

[Grandmother]






















(a poorly taken, copyright violating picture from Michael Gazzaniga's Cognitive
Neuroscience textbook.)

The activation of a horizontal edge detector, by itself, doesn’t constitute
organized awareness of the object, or even the edge. 

Neuron complexes in human brains are also capable of very high level, abstract
representation.  In a famous study, “Invariant visual representation by single
neurons in the humanbrain,” Quiroga, Reddy, Kreiman, Kock, and Fried, they
discovered the so-called Halle Berry neuron with some sensitive detectors
inserted into different regions of the brains of some test subjects.  This
neuron’s activity was correlated with activation patterns for a wide range of
Halle Berry images. 

[Halle]










What’s really interesting here is that this neuron became active with quite
varied photos and line drawings of Halle Berry, from different angles, in
different lighting, in a Cat Woman costume, and even, remarkably, in response
to the text “Halle Berry.”   That is, this neuron plays a role in the firing
patterns for a highly abstract concept of Halle Berry. 

Prinz is interested in consciousness conceived as mid-level representational
attention that lies somewhere between these two extremes.  “Consciousness is
intermediate level representation.  Consciousness represents whole objects,
rich with surface details, located in depth, and presented from a particular
point of view.”  During the real time moments of phenomenal awareness, various
representations come to take up our attention in the visual field.  Prinz
argues that, “Consciousness arises when we attend, and attention makes
information available to working memory. Consciousness does not depend on
storage in working memory, and, indeed, the states we are conscious of cannot
be adequately stored.”

When you look at a Necker cure, you can first be aware of the lower left square
as the leading face.  Then you can switch your awareness to seeing the upper
right square as the leading face.  So you attention has shifted from one
representation to another. 

[NeuralCorrelatesOfConsciousness3]




















That is the level at which Prinz is located the mercurial notion of
consciousness, and trying to develop a predictive theory based on the empirical
evidence.  And Prinz goes to some lengths to argue that consciousness in this
sense is not what’s moved into working memory, it’s not the contents
necessarily that have become available to the global workspace such as when
they are stored for later access.  These contents may or may not be accessible
later for recall.  But at the moment they are the contents of mind, part of the
flow and movement of attention. 

Here I’m not interested in the question of whether Prinz provides us with the
best theory of human consciousness, but I am interested in what light his view
can shed on the AI project.  I’m particularly interesting in Prinz here because
it’s arguable that we already have artificial systems that are capable, more or
less, of doing the low level and the high level representations described
above.  Edge detection, color detection, simple feature detection in a “visual”
field are relatively simple tasks for machines.  And processing at a high level
of conceptual abstraction has been accomplished in some cases.  IBM’s Jeopardy
playing system Watson successfully answered clues such as, “To push one of
these paper products is to stretch established limits,” answer:  envelope. 
“Tickets aren’t needed for this “event,” a black hole’s boundary from which
matter can’t escape,” answer:  event horizon.  “A thief, or the bent part of an
arm,” answer:  crook.  Even Google search algorithms do a remarkable job of
divining the intentions behind our searches, excluding thousands of possible
interpretations of our search strings that would be accurate to the letters,
but have nothing to do with what we are interested in.

So think about this.  Simple feature detection isn’t a problem.  And we are on
our way to some different kinds of high level conceptual abstraction.  Long
term storage for further analysis also isn’t a problem for machines.  That’s
one of the things that machines already do better than us.  But what Prinz has
put his finger on is the ephemeral movement of attention from moment to moment
in awareness.  During the course of writing this piece, I’ve been
multi-tasking, which I shouldn’t have.  I’ve been answering emails, sorting out
calendar scheduling, making plans to get kids from school, and so on.  And now
I’m trying to recall what all I’ve been thinking about over the last hour. 
Lots of it is available to me to now.  But there were, no doubt, a lot of
mental contents, a lot of random thoughts, that came and went without leaving
much of a trace.  I say, “no doubt,” because if they didn’t go into memory, if
they didn’t become targets of substantial focus, then even though I had them
then I won’t be able to bring them back now.  And I say, “no doubt,” because
when I am attending to my conscious experience now, from moment to moment, and
I’m really concentrating on just this point, I realize that I’m aware of the
feeling of the clicking keyboard keys under my fingers, then I notice the music
I’ve got playing in the background, then I glance at my email tab, and so on. 
That is, my moments are filled with miscellaneous contents.  I’ve mode those
particular ones into a bigger deal in my brain because I just wrote about them
in a blog post.  But lots of our conscious lives, maybe most, those contents
come and go, like hummingbirds flitting in and out of the scene.  And once they
are gone, they are gone.

Now we can ask the questions:  Do we want an AI to have that?  Do we need an AI
to have that?  Would it serve any purpose? 

Bottom Up Attention

That capacity in us served an evolutionary purpose.  At any given time, there
are countless zombie agents, low level neuronal complexes, that are doing
discriminatory work on information from the sensory periphery and from other
neural structures.  The outputs of those discriminators may or may not end up
being the subject of conscious attention.  In many cases, those contents become
the focus of attention from the bottom up.  So lower level system deems the
content important enough to call your attention to it, as it were.  So when
your car doesn’t sound right when it’s starting up, or when a friend’s face
reveals that he’s emotionally troubled it jumps to our attention.  Your brain
is adept at scanning your environment for causes for alarm and then thrusting
them into the spotlight of attention for action.  

Top Down Attention

But we are able to direct the spotlight as well.  We can focus our attention,
sustain mental awareness on a task or some phenomena, to suss out details, make
extended plans, anticipate problems, and model out possible future scenarios
and so on.  You can go to work finding Waldo:

[waldo]






















Chapter 14 of Christof Koch's The Question for Consciousness: A Neurobiological
Approach
gives a more detailed account of the evolutionary functions of consciousness. 

Given what we saw above about the difference in Prinz between conscious
attention and short and long term memory, we can see conscious attention can be
seen as a sort of screening process.  A lot of ordinary phenomenal
consciousness is the result of low level monitoring systems crossing a minimal
threshold of concern.  This, right here is important enough to take a closer
look at.  
  

[popout]




















Part of the reason that the window of our conscious attention is temporally
brief and spatially finite is that resources are limited.  Resources were
limited when evolution was building the system.  It’s kludged up from parts and
systems that we re-adapted from other functions.  There was no long view, or
deliberate planning on the process.  Just the slow pruning of mutation branches
on the evolutionary tree.  And it modifies the gene pool according to the rates
at which organisms, equipped as they are, manage to meet survival challenges. 

Kludge:  Consider to different ways to work on a car.  You could take it apart,
analyze the systems, plan, make modifications, build new parts, and then
reassemble the car.  While the car is taken apart and while you are building
new parts, it doesn’t function.  It’s just a pile of parts on the shop floor. 
But imagine that the car is in a race, and there’s a bin of simple replacement
parts on board, some only slightly different than the ones currently in the
car, and modifications to the car must be made while the car is racing around
the track with the other cars.  The car has to keep going at all times, or it’s
out of the race for good.  Furthermore, no one gets to choose which parts get
pulled out of the bin and put into the car.  That’s a kludge. 

Resources are also limited because evolution built a system that does triage. 
The cognitive systems just have to be good enough to keep the organism alive
long enough to bear its young, and possibly make a positive contribution toward
their survival.  The monitoring systems that are keeping track of its
environment just need to catch the deadly threats, and catch them only far
enough in advance to save its ass.  It’s not allowed the luxury of long term,
substantial contemplation of one topic or many to the exclusion of all others. 
Furthermore, calories are limited.  Only so many can be scrounged up during the
course of the day.  So only so many can be dedicated to the relatively costly
expenditure of billions of active neural cells. 

The evolutionary functions of consciousness for us give us some insight into
whether it might be useful or dangerous in an AI.  First, AIs can be better
planned, better designed than evolution’s brains.  An AI need not be confined
to triage functions, although we can imagine modeling human brains to some
extent and using them to keep watch on bigger, more complex systems where more
can go wrong than human operators could keep track of.  An AI might run an
airport better, or a subway system, or a power grid, where hundreds or
thousands or more subsystems need to be monitored for problems.  The success of
self-driving Google cars already suggest what could be possible with wide
spread implementation on the street and highway systems.  So bottom up
indicated monitoring could clearly be useful in an AI system. 

Top down, executive directed control of the spotlight of attention, and the
deliberate investment of processing resources into a representational complex
with longer term planning and goal directed activity driving the attention
could clearly be useful for an AI system too.  “Hal, we want you to find a cure
for cancer.  Here are several hundred thousand journal articles.” 

The looming question, of course, is what about the dangers of building
mid-level attention into an AI?  Bostrom’s Superintelligence has been looming
in the back of my mind through this whole post.  It’s a big topic.  I’ll save
that for a future post, or 3 or 10 or 25.  

1 COMMENTS [icon18_ema] ● Posted by Matt McCormick at 3:06 PM Links to this
post

Friday, June 5, 2015

Evil Demonology and Artificial Intelligence

Eliminativists eliminate.  In history, the concepts and theories that we build
about the world form a scaffold for our inquiries.  As the investigation into
some phenomena proceeds, we often find that the terms, the concepts, the
equations, or even whole theories have gotten far enough out of synch with our
observations to require consignment to the dustbin of history.  Demonology was
once an active field of inquiry in our attempts to understand disease.  The
humour theory of disease was another attempt to understand what was happening
to Plague victims in the 14th century.  Medieval healers were trying to explain
a bacterial infection with yersenia pestis 600 years before the microbe, the
real cause, had even been identified.  Explanations of the disease symptoms in
terms of imbalances of yellow bile, blood, black bile, and phlegm produced
worthless and ineffective treatments.  So we eliminate humour theory of
disease, demonology, the elan vital theory of life, God, Creationism, and so on
as science marches on.  

[1022px-Humorism]

Eliminativism has taken on the status of a dirty word among some philosophers,
a bit like people who are quick to insist that they believe women are equal and
all that, but they aren’t “feminists” because that’s too harsh or strident.  

[tumblr_nhvvnpMT3e1s9rx9zo1_1280]

But we can and should take an important lesson from EM, even if we don’t want
to be card carrying members.  Theory changes can be ontologically conservative
or ontologically radical depending on the extent to which they preserve the
entities, concepts, or theoretical structures of the old account. 

Connectionism, Eliminativism, and the Future of Folk Psychology

That is, we can be conservative; we can hold onto the old terms, the old
framework, the old theory, and revise the details in light of the new things we
learn. 

Here’s how the Churchlands explains the process. 

[EM]






















We begin our inquiry into what appears to be several related phenomena, calling
it “fire.”  Ultimately, when a robust scientific theory about the nature of the
phenomena is in place, we learn that some of the things, like fireflies and
comets, that we originally thought were related to burning wood, are actually
fundamentally different.  And we learn that “fire” itself is not at all what we
originally thought it was.  We have to start with some sort of conceptual
scaffolding, but we rebuild it along the way, jettison some parts, and
radically overhaul parts of it. 

My point then, is that we must take a vital lesson from the eliminativists
about the AI project.  At the outset of our inquiry, it seems like terms such
as “thinking,” “consciousness,” “self-awareness,” “thoughts,” “belief,” and so
on identify real phenomena in the world.  These terms seem to break nature at
the joints, as they say.  But we should be prepared, we should be eager even,
to scrap the term, overhaul the definition, toss the theory, or otherwise
regroup in the light of important new information.  We are rapidly moving into
the golden age of brain science, cognitive science, and artificial intelligence
research.  We should expect that to produce upheaval in the story we’ve been
telling for the last several hundred years of thinking about thinking.  Let’s
get ahead of the curve on that. 

With that in mind, I’ll use these terms in what follows with a great big
asterisk:  * this is a sloppy term that is poorly defined and quite possibly
misleading, but we’ve gotta start somewhere. 

Folk psychological terms that I’m prepared to kick to the curb:  belief, idea,
concept, mind, consciousness, thought, will, desire, freedom, and so on.  That
is, as we go about theorizing about and trying to build an AI, and someone
raises a concern of the form, “But what about X?  Can it do X?  Oh, robots will
never be able to do X….”  I am going to treat it as an open question whether X
is even a real thing that needs to be taken into account. 

Imagine we time traveled a medieval healer from 14^th century France to the
Harvard school of medicine.  We show him around, we show him all the modern
fancy tools we have for curing disease, we show him all the different
departments where we address different kinds of disease, and we show him lots
of cured patients.  He’s suitably impressed and takes it all in.  But then he
says, “This is all very impressive and I am amazed by the sights and things
going on here.  But you call yourselves healers? What you are doing here is
interesting, but where are your demonologists?  In 700 years, have you not made
any progress at all addressing the real source of human suffering which is
demon possession?  Where is your department of demonology?  Those are the
modern experts who I’d really like to talk to.”    

We don’t want to end up being that guy. 

We should expect, given the lessons of history, that some of the folk
psychological terms that we’ve been using are going to turn out to not identify
anything real, some of them will turn out to not be what we thought they’d be
at all, and we’re going to end up filling in the details about minds in ways
that we didn’t imagine at the outset.  Let’s not be curmudgeonly theorists,
digging in our heels and refusing to innovate our conceptual structures.  But
on the other hand, let’s also not be too ready to jump onto to every new
theoretical bandwagon that comes along.   












0 COMMENTS [icon18_ema] ● Posted by Matt McCormick at 9:31 AM Links to this
post

Wednesday, June 3, 2015

Turing and Machine Minds


[turing]



In 1950, mathematician Alan M. Turing proposed a test for machine
consciousness.  If a human interrogator could not distinguish between the
responses of a real human being and a machine built to hold conversations, then
we would have no reason, other than prejudice, for not admitting that the
machine was in fact conscious and thinking.  http://orium.pw/paper/turingai.pdf
 

I won’t debate the merits or sufficiency of the Turing Test here.  But I will
use it to introduce some clarifications into the AI discussion.  Turing thought
that if a machine could do some of the things we do, like have conversations,
that would be an adequate indicator of the presence of a mind.  But we need to
get clear on the goal in building an artificial intelligence.  Human minds are
what we have to work with as a model, but not everything about them is worth
replicating or modeling.  For example, we are highly prone to confirmation
bias, we have loss aversion, and we can only hold about 7-10 digits (a phone
number) in short term working memory.  Being able to participate in a
conversation would be an impressive feat, give the subtleties and vagaries of
natural language.  But it’s a rather organic, idiosyncratic, and
anthropocentric task.  And we might invest substantial effort and resources
into replicating contingent, philosophically pointless attributes of the human
mind instead of fully exploring some of the possibilities of a new, artificial
mind of a different sort.  Japanese researchers, for example, have invested
enormous amounts of money and effort into replicating subtle human facial
expressions on robots.  Interesting for parties maybe, but we shouldn’t get
lost up side tributaries as we move up the river to the source of mind. 

One of the standard objections to Turing’s thesis is this:  But a Turing
machine/Artificial intelligence system can’t/doesn’t have _______________,
where we insert one of the following: 

a. make mistakes.    (Trivial to build in, but inessential and unimportant.)
b. have emotions  (Inessential, and philosophically and practically
uninteresting.)
c. fall in love  (Yawn.)
d. care/want  (Maybe this is important.  Perhaps having goals is essential/
interesting.  It remains to be seen if this cannot be built into such a
system.  More on goals later.)
e. freedom  (Depends on what you mean by freedom.  Short answer:  there don’t
appear to be any substantial reasons a priori why an artificial system cannot
be built that has “freedom” in the sense that’s meaningful and interesting in
humans.  See Hume on freewill.  http://www.iep.utm.edu/freewill/
f. produce original ideas.  ( What does original mean?   A new synthesis of old
concepts, contents, forms, styles?  That’s easy.  Watson, IBM’s jeopardy
dominating system is being used to make new recipes, and lots of innovate,
original solutions to problems.)
g. creativity  (What does this mean?  produce original new ideas?  See above. 
Complex systems, such as Watson, have emergent properties.  They are able to
lots of new things that their creators/programmers did not foresee.)
h. do anything that it’s not programmed to do.  (“Programmed” is outdated talk
here.  More later on connectionist systems.  Can sophisticated AI programs do
unpredictable things now?  Yes.  Can they now do things that the designers
didn’t anticipate?  Yes.  Will they do more in the future as the technology
advances?  Yes.) 
i. feel pleasure or pain  (I’ll concede, for the moment, that building an
artificial system that has this capacity is a ways off technologically.  And
I’ll concede that it’s a very interesting philosophical question.  I won’t
concede that building this capacity in is impossible in principle.  And we must
also ask why is it important?  Why do we need an AI to have this capacity?)
j. intelligence
k. consciousness
l. understand
m. qualitative or phenomenal states  (See Tononi, Koch, and McDermott)

I think objections a-h miss the point entirely.  I take it that for a-h, the
denial that a system can be built with the attribute is either simply false,
will be proven false, or the attribute isn’t interesting or important enough to
warrant the attention.  i through m, however, are interesting.  And there’s a
lot more to be said about them.  For each, we will need more than a simple
denial without argument.  We need an argument with substantial principled,
non-prejudicial reasons for thinking that these capacities are beyond the reach
of technology.  (In general, history should have taught us to be very skeptical
of grumbling naysaying the form of “This new-fangled technology will never be
able to X.”  But one of the things I’m going to be doing in the blog in the
future is caching out in much more detail what the terms intelligence,
consciousness, understand, and phenomenal states should be taken to mean in the
AI project context, and working out the details of what we might be able to
build.   

But more importantly, I think the list of typical objections to Turing’s thesis
raises this question:  just what do we want one of these things to do?  Maybe
someone wants to simulate a human mind to a high degree of precision.  I can
imagine a number of interesting reasons to do that.  Maybe we want to model up
the human neural system to understand how it works.  Maybe we want to
ultimately be able to replicate or even transfer a human consciousness into a
medium that doesn’t have such a short expiration date.  Maybe we want to build
helper robots that are very much like us and that understand us well.  Maybe a
very close approximation of a human mind, with some suitable tweaks, could
serve as a good, tireless, optimally effective therapist.  (See the early AI
experiments with a therapy program.) 

But the human brain is a kludge.  It’s a messy, organic amalgam of a lot of
different models and functions that evolved under one set of circumstances that
later got repurposed for doing other things.  The path that led from point A to
point B, where B is the set of cognitive capacities we have is convoluted,
circuitous, full of fits and starts, peppered with false starts, tradeoffs,
unintended consequences, byproducts, and the like.

A partial list of endemic cognitive fuckups in humans from Kahneman and Tversky
(and me):  Confirmation Bias, Sunk Cost Fallacy, Asch Effect, Availability
Heuristic, Motivated Reasoning, Hyperactive Agency Detection, Supernaturalism,
Promiscuous Teleology, Faulty Causal Theorizing, Representativeness Heuristic,
Planning Fallacy, Loss Aversion, Ignoring Base Rates, Magical Thinking, and
Anchoring Effect. 


So with all of that said, again, what do we want an AI to do?  I don’t want one
to make any of the mistakes on the list just above.  And I think that we
shouldn’t even be talking about mistakes, emotions, falling in love, caring or
wanting, freedom, or feeling pleasure of pain.  What these things show
incredible promise at doing is understanding complex, challenging problems and
then devising remarkable and valuable solutions to them.   Watson, the Jeopardy
dominating system built by IBM, has been put to use devising new recipes.  Chef
Watson is able to interact with would be chefs, compile a list of preferred
flavors, textures, or ingredients, and then create new recipes, some of which
are creative, surprising, and quite good.  The tamarind-cabbage slaw with
crispy onions is quite good, I hear.  But within this seemingly frivolous
application of some extremely sophisticated technology, there is a more
important suggestion.  Imagine that Watson’s ingenuity is put to work in a
genetics lab, in a cancer research center, in an engineering firm building a
new bridge, or at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
predicting the formation and movement of hurricanes.  I submit that building a
system that can grasp our biggest problems, fold in all of the essential
variables, and create solutions is the most important goal we should have.  And
we should be injecting huge amounts of our resources into that pursuit.  

0 COMMENTS [icon18_ema] ● Posted by Matt McCormick at 2:41 PM Links to this
post

Tuesday, June 2, 2015

Building Self-Aware Machines

[artificial_intelligence_004]





















The public mood toward the prospect of artificial intelligence is dark. 
Increasingly, people fear the results of creating an intelligence whose
abilities will far exceed our own, and who pursues goals that are not
compatible with our own.  See Nick Bostrom’s Superintelligence:  Paths,
Dangers, Strategies for a good summary of those arguments.  I think resistance
is a mistake (and futile) and I think we should be actively striving toward the
construction of artificial intelligence.

When we ask “Can a machine be conscious?,” I believe we often misses several
important distinctions.  With regard to the AI project, we would be better off
distinguishing at least between qualitative/phenomenal states, exterior
self-modeling, interior self-modeling, information processing, attention,
sentience, executive top-down control, self-awareness, and so on.  Once we make
a number of these distinctions, it becomes clear that we have already created
systems with some of these capacities, others are not far off, and still others
present the biggest challenges to the project. Here I will focus just on two,
following Drew McDermott:  interior and exterior self-modeling. 

A cognitive system has a self-model if it has the capacity to represent,
acknowledge, or take account of itself as an object in the world with other
objects.  Exterior self-modeling requires treating the self solely as a
physical, spatial-temporal object among other objects.  So you can easily
spatially locate yourself in the room, you have a representation of where you
are in relation to your mother’s house, or perhaps to the Eiffel Tower.  You
can also easily temporally locate yourself.  You represent Napoleon as am 18^th
century French Emperor, and you are aware that the segment of time that you
occupy is after the segment of time that he occupied.  Children swinging from
one bar to another on the playground are employing an exterior self-model, as
is a ground squirrel running back to its burrow.  

Exterior self-modeling is relatively easy to build into an artificial system
compared to many other tasks that face the AI project.  Your phone is
technologically advanced enough to put itself in a location in space in
relationship to other objects with its GPS system.  I built a CNC machine in my
garage (Computer Numeric Controlled cutting system) that I ”zero” out when I
start it up.  I designate a location in a three dimensional coordinate system
as (0, 0, 0) for the X, Y, and Z axes, then the machine keeps track of where it
is in relation to that point as it cuts.  When it’s finished, it returns to (0,
0, 0).  The system knows where it is in space, at least in the very small
segment of space that it is capable of representing (About 36” x 24” x 5”). 

Interior self-modeling is the capacity to represent yourself as an information
processing, epistemic, representational agent.  That is, a system has an
interior self-model if it represents the state of its own informational,
cognitive capacities.  Loosely, it is knowing what you know and knowing what
you don’t know.  It is a system that is able to locate the state of its own
information about the world within a range of possible states.  When you
recognize that watching too much Fox News might be contributing to your being
negative about President Obama, you are employing an interior self-model.  When
you resolve to not make a decision about which car to buy until you’ve done
some more research, or when you wait until after the debates to decide which
candidate to vote for, you are exercising your interior self-model.  You have
located yourself as a thinking, believing, judging agent within a range of
possible information states.  Making decisions requires information.  Making
good decisions requires being able to assess how much information you have, how
good it is, and how much more (or less) you need or how much better you need it
to be in order to decide within the tolerances of your margins of error. 

So in order to endow an artificial cognitive system with an interior
self-model, we must build it to model itself as an information system similar
to how we’d build it to model itself in space and time.  Hypothetically, a
system can have no information, or it can have all of the information.  And the
information it has can be poor quality, with a high likelihood of being false,
or it can be high quality, with a high likelihood of being true.  Those two
dimensions are like a spatial-temporal framework, and the system must be able
to locate its own information state within that range of possibilities.  Then
the system, if we want it to make good decisions, must be able to recognize the
difference between the state it is in and the minimally acceptable information
state it should be in.  Then, ideally, we’d build it with the tools to close
that gap.  Imagine a doctor who is presented with a patient with an unfamiliar
set of symptoms.  Recognizing that she doesn’t have enough information to
diagnosis the problem, she does a literature search so that she can responsibly
address it.  Now imagine an artificial system with reliable decisions
heuristics that recognizes the adequacy or inadequacy of its information base,
and then does a medical literature review that is far more comprehensive,
consistent, and discerning than a human doctor is capable of.  At the first
level, our AI system needs to be able to compile and process information that
will produce a decision.  But at the second level, our AI system must be able
to judge its own fitness for making that decision and rectify the information
state short coming if there is one.  Representing itself as an epistemic agent
in this fashion strikes me as one of the most important and interesting ways to
flesh out the notion of being “self-aware” that is often brought up when we ask
the question “Can a machine be conscious?” 


McDermott, Drew.  “Artificial Intelligence and Consciousness,”  The Cambridge
Handbook of Consciousness, 117-150.  Zelazo, Moscovitch, and Thompson, eds. 
2007.  Also here:  http://www.cs.yale.edu/homes/dvm/papers/conscioushb.pdf

0 COMMENTS [icon18_ema] ● Posted by Matt McCormick at 8:18 AM Links to this
post

Wednesday, April 15, 2015

The Myth of the Afterlife

This just came out.  I wrote the lead chapter in it.  Buy it at Amazon:

The Myth of the Afterlife

[51P-Wx5ObL]

0 COMMENTS [icon18_ema] ● Posted by Matt McCormick at 3:12 PM Links to this
post

Monday, March 30, 2015

The F Word Lecture



Here's video, shot by Nathan Lusher (Thanks Nathan!), of my talk from Manteca a
few days ago.  I spoke to the Stanislaus Humanists at the Manteca Public
Library.  This year there wasn't a huge angry mob outside, but hey, you can't
win them all.  

Many believers defend their belief by invoking faith.  Believing by faith, we
are told, solves whatever problems there may be with the evidence.  Believing
by faith is widely thought to be admirable and virtuous.  

But believing despite lacking or contrary evidence is dangerously misguided.  I
make a case to believers why they should not resort to this defense and I
explain why faith from the believer to the skeptic cannot be prescriptive.  It
implies no intellectual obligation to believe.  Faith is believing without
rules.  






0 COMMENTS [icon18_ema] ● Posted by Matt McCormick at 8:37 AM Links to this
post

Wednesday, March 18, 2015

The F Word

The F Word.

I'm speaking to a secular humanists group tonight in Manteca at the Manteca
Public Library at 7:00.  I'll be talking about the problems with believing by
faith.

My presentation is here.

1 COMMENTS [icon18_ema] ● Posted by Matt McCormick at 11:25 AM Links to this
post

Friday, April 18, 2014

Three Lectures on Plantinga's Reformed Epistemology

embed(https://www.youtube.com/v/LPl9jQFnlzM?version=3&f=user_uploads&c=
google-webdrive-0&app=youtube_gdata)





embed(https://www.youtube.com/v/anjuHxrGq8o?version=3&f=user_uploads&c=
google-webdrive-0&app=youtube_gdata)



embed(https://www.youtube.com/v/wh04l7nJ3GI?version=3&f=user_uploads&c=
google-webdrive-0&app=youtube_gdata)


11 COMMENTS [icon18_ema] ● Posted by Matt McCormick at 1:46 PM Links to this
post

Wednesday, April 9, 2014

Ad hominem: Your Sins Keep You from Seeing God

I'm recycling this post from 2007.  This guy put his finger on something:

A group of philosophers sympathetic with the Christian take on things have
constructed a complicated and technical account of God beliefs and their source
in human cognition known as reformed epistemology. On the view, espoused by
Plantinga and Wolterstorff and widely cited and supported in recent years,
humans are endowed by God with an innate faculty for sensing God under the
right circumstances. This sensus divinitatus is one aspect of a properly
functioning cognitive and belief forming system in humans. When it is not
corrupted by the invasive noetic effects of sin, this faculty produces a belief
in God that is immediate, direct, and non-inferentially justified. That is, a
belief in God is properly basic according to the reformed epistemologists. It
is not supported by any other independent or more fundamental facts. It cannot
be justified on the basis of other beliefs. Rather, it’s axiomatic like the law
of non-contradiction or the identity of indiscernibles. The sensus divinitatus
will manifest itself in a variety of ways—when you see a sweeping vista of
majestic mountaintops, or when your first child is born, or upon pondering the
vastness and magnificence of the universe in the night sky.

Misinterpreting these feelings of the divine as indicators of a non-Christian
God as a Hindu might, or suppressing them and denying that God is manifest in
experience are all the by-products of a sinful nature. Doubters, skeptics, and
deniers—anyone who doesn’t buy into the Reformed Epistemology picture—have all
had their God given God detectors corrupted, co-opted, and distorted by sin.
What they need, of course, is the salvation of Jesus to cleanse them of their
immorality and to restore the proper function of their belief faculties. Then
they will see that they were not right with God before. And then they will have
properly basis religious experience of God. So the view has a the tidy way to
deal with criticisms and legitimate objections. No objection to the whole
scheme can have any merit because it arises from doubt, which is really just
wickedness. If you had some experiences that seemed to have profound religious
significance, like any normal person you would wonder about alternative
explanations. Could this just be a weird artifact of my neurology? I wonder
what natural explanation there could be for this strange disassociation? Maybe
I ate something bad? The full-blown theistic supernatural explanation is one
possibility. But according to Reformed Epistemology any suspicion that you have
that it might have been something natural is really the result of your innately
evil nature and the taint that sin has placed on your ability to think
straight. They position undercuts any objections with an ad hominem attack on
the moral character of the questioner. 

The whole scheme is also clever (and insidious) for inventing a notion of
private evidence that shouldn’t be held up for any public scrutiny by someone
who has doubts. Once you’re in the special club, you’re provided with
“self-authenticating witness of the holy spirit” that gives you perfect,
unassailable assurance about your God doctrine no matter what empirical
questions or doubts may arise. Ordinarily, evidence is something that is
sharable and public. The prosecuting attorney displays the gun that was the
murder weapon for everyone in the court, the dentist looks at X-rays, and your
mechanic points to the leaking oil around a gasket as evidence that there is a
problem. But this special God feeling isn’t like that; it’s just a feeling you
have that something’s got to be true, so it can’t be shared with anyone else.
Plantinga and some of the people in this camp suggest that the earnest
Christian in this situation ought to consider alternative explanations for
their experience. Many properly basic beliefs, including the God one
presumably, are defeasible. If you have the experiences, and if your conviction
that that’s really God your feeling persists after you have scrutinized the
belief and reflected on what might be causing it, then you will have a
warranted, and true belief that there is a God.

Needless to say, the notion of private evidence here is deeply problematic.
Imagine an IRS agent telling you that she’s got self-authenticating, private
evidence that you can’t see that you owe the government an extra $20,000 tax
dollars. Imagine a doctor telling you that she’s got self-authenticating
evidence that you’ve got cancer, but the evidence can’t be grasped by anyone
who doesn’t already believe it. Or imagine your husband telling you that he’s
got special, private, self-authenticating evidence that you’ve been cheating on
him. Then suppose furthermore that they assure you that their conclusion is
right because they have thought long and hard about it and considered other
possibilities. Evidence that's private isn't really evidence at all and a mere
feeling that something just must be true, no matter how strong or persistent,
is never enough to give it warrant. 

Here’s a model of human rationality and religious belief that is much more
accurate. Humans are endowed by evolution with a remarkably effective set of
problem solving skills that can be group loosely under the general heading
“reason.” In the right circumstances, our reason allows us to devise
complicated and elegant solutions to challenges, make accurate inferences and
predictions, and arrive at many well-justified and true beliefs. We manage to
cure diseases like polio and land people on the moon. But our cognitive systems
are kludgey and imperfect. They’re strapped together with disparate functions
and tools that were available at various stages in a long, convoluted
evolutionary history. Sometimes they don’t track the truth at all, like when
you have an attack of claustrophobia, or you can’t bear to even look at a dish
that once made you sick when you were a child. Sometimes our cognitive
faculties overreact, mislead, underestimate, or misjudge. 

Our fancier faculties of reason are also often overwhelmed by a variety of
emotional, psychological, and biological forces that erode our ability to
reason well and see the truth. One legacy of our evolutionary history appears
to be a powerful disposition towards religious belief, experiences, and
feelings. Daniel Dennett and Stephen Pinker have recently argued that natural
selection may have endowed us with a sort of mind-attribution module.
Construing other organisms behavior as the product of the planning and goals
within their minds, whether they really have them or not, would be an effective
mechanism for anticipating and projecting the behaviors of potential predators
and prey. But we’re just built to take it too far and endow everything with a
mind—the wind, the ocean, the starry sky, and the world itself. 

In an earlier post, I called it the Urge—a powerful and seductive need we have
to be religious. Completely aside from the factual question of God, it is
obvious to anyone who observes humans and their religious activities that we
desperately want there to be a God and we will adopt the most contorted
gymnastics of reasoning to rationalize the belief. Even if there are some
theists with good reasons, there are far more with sloppy, fallacy ridden,
biased grounds that they offer for their beliefs. And in lots of these cases,
it’s not really the poor reasoning that is offered in defense of someone’s God
belief that led them to believe at all. More often it is the case that people
have the belief first as a result of the Urge’s infiltration of their
consciousness, and then they back fill that conclusion with some superficial
reasons. So the Urge is really the dark side of your nature that threatens to
corrupt your more noble aspects. It’s the alluring, siren call of religion
itself, not sin, that will co-opt reason’s ability to see the world in an
accurate light. 

Staying on the straight and narrow will require resisting the temptation of
religion’s easy, emotionally satisfying answers to the biggest metaphysical
questions. Living up to your potential to reason clearly and evaluate the
evidence objectively demands that you be constantly vigilant against seduction
of religion’s false comforts.

7 COMMENTS [icon18_ema] ● Posted by Matt McCormick at 12:55 PM Links to this
post

Monday, March 17, 2014

Double Standards for Jesus


I got interviewed by Alan Litchfield recently for his podcast:

http://www.malcontentsgambit.com/2014/03/11/
philosopher-argues-against-christianitys-double-standard/

Take a listen to hear me get pretty heated up about the narcissism of many
contemporary Christians' views about God, and for details about my recent
Manteca lecture that was met with a crowd of angry, tongues-speaking
evangelicals trying to exorcise me out of town.

20 COMMENTS [icon18_ema] ● Posted by Matt McCormick at 1:55 PM Links to this
post

Saturday, February 8, 2014

New Lecture on Motivated Reasoning

embed(https://www.youtube.com/v/47T-y9HzGLQ?version=3&f=user_uploads&c=
google-webdrive-0&app=youtube_gdata)


1 COMMENTS [icon18_ema] ● Posted by Matt McCormick at 7:17 PM Links to this
post

Tuesday, January 28, 2014

Thinking Critically About God

My recent lecture to the Stanislaus Humanists in Manteca, CA on Jan. 15 has
caused some controversy locally.  See some of the heated letters to the editor
here:
www.mantecabulletin.com under the Opinion section.  

In response, I wrote this letter to the editor of the paper.  Let's hope they
publish it and I get an opportunity to talk to some of that local church
groups.  The pastor of the church that demonstrated that night has declined my
offer.  

My name is Matt McCormick.  I am the professor who gave the lecture to the
Stanislaus Humanist group at the Manteca Library on January 15. 

I’d like to thank the Stanislaus Humanists for inviting me to speak.  And I’d
like to thank all of the people from Manteca who came out either to hear me
speak, or to participate in the events outside the building that night. 

My lecture has stirred up quite a bit of controversy.  I’d like to present a
few thoughts on what I take to be a fundamental issue, and I’d like to make an
offer to any churches or other groups in Manteca. 

The most fundamental requirement for a successful democracy, and for human
prosperity and happiness, is for individuals to, first, be informed with the
full range of relevant ideas, particularly concerning important decisions, and,
second, for them to have the critical thinking skills to be able to reason
clearly, accurately, and reliably about that body of information. 

In religious organizations, to a greater or lesser extent depending on the
tradition, the social model is fundamentally authoritarian; the clergy lead,
they shepherd, they give their congregations the answers, they enforce belief
conformity, they exclude dissenters, they exclude contrary ideas, they
discourage doubts, and they discourage independent thinking.  Much of this was
evident in the dangerous rhetoric in response to my coming to speak in
Manteca.  Many of the comments and reactions before, during and after have been
dangerous, combative, and confrontational.  One pastor, praying about my
lecture before I came to town said, “We drive back any atheist movement right
now in the name of Jesus. . . We must repel the demonic attack on our city,"
and he prayed, "God, cause a storm to happen or something [on Wednesday
night]."  Another pastor said that I was an "evangelical atheist," and "they're
going to try to put up billboards, they're going to try to do other things to
convince people that God is not real. . .  And, as far as I'm concerned, this
is our house.  This is our house.  This is our city." 

The social model for a liberal arts education at a university like where I am a
professor is fundamentally democratic; my job is to encourage people to
actively consider contrary ideas, think for themselves, make their own
decisions, be independent, to not blindly trust authority, and to not be
manipulated by emotional ploys or rhetoric.  Our goal is to get people to
reason well.  We are neutral with regard to the outcome of that reasoning
process; people should be free to draw whatever conclusion they deem to be best
supported by sound reasoning and the evidence.  Creating atheists is not my
goal; I would rather people become thoughtful, rational, well-informed
believers in God than have them be dogmatic and irrational. 

Many pastors, preachers, priests, and other clergy are dedicated to keeping you
believing no matter what the evidence is.  And they wittingly or unwittingly
use a variety of methods to do it that are at odds with your being an
independent, informed, and effective critical thinker.  Some of them and some
of their methods encourage ignorance, superstition, intolerance, irrationality,
and narrow-mindedness.  We should all be deeply concerned about clergy who
would capitalize on the ignorance of people who don't have the critical
thinking skills or the information to know any better, to keep them from making
thoughtful, informed, reasonable decisions for themselves. 

So with all of that in mind, I’d like to make an offer.  I would like to come
and speak to any church or group in the Manteca area who would host me, and
present some of my questions and doubts about the resurrection of Jesus. 
People should have free access to information, including viewpoints that may
seem outrageous or offensive, and they should be able to develop informed,
reasonable conclusions about matters of great importance on the basis of the
full body of relevant information.  My email address is mccormick@csus.edu



8 COMMENTS [icon18_ema] ● Posted by Matt McCormick at 12:29 PM Links to this
post

Monday, January 27, 2014

Talking them out of God

On my recent visit to Manteca to speak to Stanislaw Humanists about the
resurrection, we had a bit of drama with some local church members.  When I
arrived at the library to speak, there were 300 or so people assembled outside
for a counter-protest/prayer vigil/religious service.  They had a P.A. system
set up, were playing music, praying, passing out food, and so on.  During my
talk, among other things, they encircled the building, held hands, and prayed
fervently about what was going on inside.  A number of them sat through my talk
and asked some questions after.  A couple of self-described “security” guys
came in and out during the talk, had intense conversations on radio headsets,
and scowled at me while I talked.  A number of them lurked outside the open
door to the lecture hall and listened.  I invited them to come in and sit down,
but they refused.  Some others who were passing by shouted into the room later
in the talk.  And when I walked back to my car at the end of the night, a car
full of people followed me slowly and finally drove off when I got in my car
and started it. 
Here’s a video of the talk:

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RGbv8-tVJCM
(Inexplicably, YouTube won't let me embed this one.)  

In a video of their sermon the week before, one of the pastor’s said, “We must
drive back this demonic attack from our city” language during the prayer.  And
also note the territorial language in their characterization of my visit. 

There’s a lot to comment on here.  But I want to focus on a particular issue
that’s been on my mind.  Let’s talk on a meta-level about what’s going on when
someone like me tries to give a carefully reasoned argument for why someone
like the believers who showed up to my talk should stop believing. 

First, the Salem Witch Trials argument that I’ve been presenting for some years
now, and in my book, is, as far as I can tell, a devastating argument against
anyone who thinks that there is adequate historical evidence to justify
believing in the resurrection.  No false modesty here.  The point is that if
the really sketchy historical information we have about Jesus warrants
concluding that he was resurrected, then the evidence we have concerning
witchcraft at Salem, which is vastly better by any measure of quantity and
quality, warrants us in concluding that there were really witches at Salem. 
But, of course, there was no magic at Salem.  So we should reject both.  There
are lots more details about this argument in my book. 

But here’s what I want to get to.  First, this sort of argument has almost no
effect on the majority of believers who hear it.  That is due, in large part to
motivated reasoning.  This is a well-studied proclivity in humans to acquire a
belief, and then evaluate all new information they encounter in ways to make it
conform to that belief.  Preference inconsistent information is critically
evaluated with much more sever skepticism, and preference consistent
information is accepted with much less critical scrutiny.  That is, if it’s not
what we want to hear, we figure out some hyper-critical way to find flaws in it
and reject it.  We all do it about lots of topics.  My book full of skeptical
arguments about Jesus, not surprisingly, has brought motivated reasoners out in
droves. 

These days, I find the base phenomena of motivated reasoning and the psychology
of belief more interesting than actually engaging in the philosophical debate
over that Salem argument.  The Salem argument is a slam dunk, as I see it.  The
only question that remains is, what are the real reasons, psychological,
social, personal, and neurobiological, that it just bounces off of so many
believers? 

One of the reactions in Manteca got my attention.  Someone said something like
this, “He’s making this argument comparing Jesus to the Salem Witch Trials or
some nonsense, and he thinks that Jesus wasn’t real. [That wasn’t my argument,
of course]. But we all know because of the presence of Jesus in our lives, and
because of what we’ve seen God do that God is real and Jesus is his one true
son. . . .  “ 

So I want to talk about that part:  the body of evidence that folks like the
ones who showed up for my talk, take to be resounding proof of God.  I’m going
to speculate a bit about what that is. 

First, this group of believers, like many in the U.S., is highly adept at
getting themselves into a state of religious ecstasy, for lack of a better
term.  Watch this bit of video, shot by local activist Dan Pemberton, of them
praying.
embed(https://youtube.googleapis.com/v/4BguACP1Ix0&source=uds)

Note the swaying, waving of hands, eyes closed, speaking in tongues, moral
elevation, and altered state of consciousness in many of them.  And notice how
quickly and easily they can slip into this state as they work themselves up. 
There are some very powerful feelings surging through people here.  Undeniably
uplifting, positive feelings of elation, transcendence, connection with
something larger, and so on.  Psychologist Jonathan Haidt and others have
called something like this moral elevation: 
http://www.psych-it.com.au/Psychlopedia/article.asp?id=262

But I think what’s going on here also merges on to religious ecstasy:  http://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Religious_ecstasy

Ok, so let’s take a believer and take the sum of all these ecstatic moments
that she’s had as a part of her evidence.  What else is there? 

There’s probably also a number of cases where she’s prayed fervently for
something—for a loved one to get better from illness, for someone to overcome
drug addiction, for guidance about some important decision, and so on—and then
as she sees it, later, the outcome she prayed for happened.  A loved one got
over an illness, someone recovered from drug addiction, etc. 

What else?  All of her friends and family believe fervently.  They are utterly
convinced.  God existence and God’s presence in their lives is an obvious truth
to them.  The fact that so many people around her, including lots of people
whose judgment she trusts, itself is a part of her evidence.  It’s part of
what’s leading her to believe.  And this makes perfect sense.  We all look to
the people around us for guidance about what to believe. 

So what would be required to bring someone like this around?  Importantly, a
person who believes needs to care about believing reasonably, they need to care
about the evidence, they must have as a priority something like Hume’s
principle:  Believe all and only those things that are best supported by the
evidence.  And believe them with a conviction that commensurate to the quality
and quantity of evidence in your possession.  And make a concerted effort to
gather all the relevant evidence (pro and con) that time, resources, and
prioritization requires.  Call this set of priorities a Rationality Principle. 

Obviously, the Rationality Principle is huge.  Lots of people don’t have it as
a priority.  Lots of people don’t understand parts of it.  And lots of people
fail to see how central it is to their achieving lots of their goals.  So a
real discussion with a believer that has the goal of getting them to not
believe may just turn into a broader, and more fundamental discussion of why
she ought to adopt or care about this principle. 

Next?  Well, it’s important to note, I think, that our hypothetical believer
here has a lot of what we should call evidence.  She has a number of
observations, experiences, events in her life, and a lot of information that is
relevant to whether God is real.  And as she sees it, that information all
points towards the God conclusion.  So if we can assume that she holds the
Rationality Principle, then we’ve got to address this body of evidence.  We’ve
got to look at the ecstatic experiences, the “answered prayers,” the community
belief, and the rest, and we’ve got to figure out what the best explanation of
all of that is.  God’s existence is a possible explanation, but it’s pretty
clearly not the best explanation.  But convincing someone of that is the hard
part.  A nice, short analysis of a reasoning mistake that is often made about
prayer is in this video:   
embed(https://youtube.googleapis.com/v/jk6ILZAaAMI&source=uds)

The problem with this piece that that the writing and the tone here is
inflammatory.  Even though he’s making a set of very good points about how
prayer is set up to be non-disconfirmable, he does it in a way that will offend
people and obscure the message. 

What about the religious ecstasy?  I have a number of ideas about what might
put those experiences into a larger, natural context for people.  They are
common in lots of human religions, including ones that make contrary claims to
Christianity.  So one person arguing for God on the basis of her ecstatic
experiences is faced with millions of other people having just the same sorts
of experiences but taking them to imply that the opposite is true.  People also
have these experiences, or something very close to them, at Justin Bieber
concerts, during football games, when the national anthem is played, during
chick flicks, and so on.  They are common, easily induced naturally, and we
don’t have any substantial reason to think that the best explanation here is
supernatural. 

What about the community believer evidence?  Education is the best key here. 
Manteca, for instance, is an isolated, rural town.  Lots of the people there
who got sucked into that church at an early age have never seen or considered
the alternatives.  They’ve never been around non-believers.  They know very
little about other religious movements, religious history, or the broader
context of human religious belief.  Learning the basics about worldwide
religious movements puts human religiousness into context, and usually suggests
a natural, rather than a supernatural explanation.  The Internet will save us,
I think.  It is democratizing information for humanity in a way that has never
occurred in history.  A massive flood of information is available to a greater
portion of people on the planet every day.  And at the end of the day, the more
someone like the people in Manteca, or someone in backwater village in India,
knows about what other people out there in the world think, they more they will
put 2 and 2 together.  In a few generations, religiousness, especially the
worst, most dangerous parts of it, will drop dramatically.  Daniel Dennett is
good on this point here:
embed(https://youtube.googleapis.com/v/6-NRMLyZfNs&source=uds)


So there’s a sketch of what I think is going on in the head of a subset of
American Christian believers.  That’s an enumeration of their evidence, and
some rough suggestions about what it will take to win them, or more likely,
their children or their grandchildren over. 


Thoughts?  

9 COMMENTS [icon18_ema] ● Posted by Matt McCormick at 10:09 AM Links to this
post
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)

My book is out:

My book is out:
●

Search This Blog

Loading...
●

Atheism

  • The Basics: What is Atheism?
  • The Influential Arguments for Atheism
  • Bibliography of Important Works on Atheism

●

Author:

My Photo

Matt McCormick
    Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Rochester.  Teaching at CSUS
    since 1996.  My main area of research and publication now is atheism and
    philosophy of religion.  I am also interested in philosophy of mind,
    epistemology, and rational decision theory/critical thinking.  

View my complete profile
●
There was an error in this gadget
●

Atheism: Proving The Negative--The Recent Posts

Loading...
●

Proving Atheism

  • Is God Impossible, or Kind of Impossible?
  • What's Left to be Agnostic About?
  • Perpetual Motion Machines and an Argument Against Agnosticism
  • Know Your Godless Heathens
  • Are We Proving the Negative Yet?
  • Three Important Arguments for Atheism
  • Philosophical Atheism Bibliography
  • Encyclopedia Entry: Atheism
  • God is Hiding
  • 500 Dead Gods Pluse One
  • 500+1: Bad Answers to a Good Question, part 1.
  • 500 + 1: Bad Answers to a Good Question—Science has a record with as many
    failures as religions.
  • Proving Atheism and Bayes' Theorem
  • Teaching Atheism
  • Critiques of Atheism
  • Common Criticisms of Atheism--Revised
  • What Would Change Your Mind?
  • A Hundred Reasons to Believe that God Does Not Exist
  • Another Way to Prove the Negative
  • Some Varieties of Atheism
  • Intellectual Cheaters
  • Everitt on Standards of Proof and Non-Belief
  • Moving the Goal Posts
  • Many Paths, No God
  • One of Several Ways to Prove the Negative
  • Moving On
  • Deal With It
  • Reasonable Belief, Proof, and Uncertainty
  • 500 Dead Gods
  • Is He Keeping His Distance, or Is He Just Not There?
  • God Wouldn’t Leave Room For Agnosticism
  • Wide Atheism: There Are No Gods
  • The Burden of Proof is on the Atheist
  • The Burden of Proof is On The Atheist--Redux
  • Coherence and Atheism
  • He Has No Brain, So God Doesn’t Exist
  • Proving the Negative

●

Morality and Atheism

  • Can't Be Moral without God? Wrong.
  • Can Evolution Explain Morality?
  • Science is Essential to Morality
  • Nature Gives Us Morality, Not God
  • Praying for the Answers
  • Morality, Therefore God
  • Explaining Our Moral Intuitions
  • Heroism and the Duty to Rescue Show that there is No God
  • The Believer's Moral Double Standard for God
  • The New Ten Commandments
  • No Moral Truths, No God
  • Monkey Morality, or Goodness Isn’t Magical
  • Stephen Pinker: Instinct for Morality
  • Trying to be Moral Through the Distorted Lens of the Bible
  • Incoherent: I believe because it makes me moral.
  • Believing in God is Immoral
  • Does the Theist Have a Moral Advantage over the Atheist?
  • Can Atheists be Moral?

●

Theistic Fallacies

  • How Reliable Are Human Religious Claims?
  • Natural Minds
  • Everything Is To the Glory of God, Revamped
  • The Jesus Sharpshooter Fallacy
  • Belief Persistence Despite Discredited Evidence
  • I was raised religious. . .
  • Heaven and Justifications of Evil
  • Many Paths, No God
  • Reigning In the Fallacious Human Belief Machine
  • Possible, Possible, Possible: Overdrawing the God Account
  • Everything to the Glory of God
  • Confusing Possible with Probable and Having a Right to Believe

●

Troubles for Christianity

  • The Salem Witch Trials-video
  • The Money Bag
  • The Case Against Christ--draft of a book proposal
  • Eyewitnesses
  • Guilty!
  • Putting Odds on Jesus
  • The Case Against Christ
  • What Does the Bible Really Say? It Doesn't Matter if We Don't Have Reasons
    to Think It's True.
  • More Bad Answers to Good Questions: Witches and Reasonable Proof
  • Jesus Magic
  • God Doesn't Want You to Believe the Bible
  • Abducted by Aliens
  • The Perfect Word of God
  • Resurrection? Probably Not.
  • Disbelieving the Believers
  • The Sin of Original Sin
  • The Real Evil of Original Sin
  • What's Desirable About Heaven?
  • Washing in Blood, Human Sacrifices, Cannibalism, Groveling in Front of
    Altars
  • Did the Believers Believe?
  • Putting the Fox In Charge of the Henhouse
  • Perfect Word of God? Reliable Historical Document?
  • Should We Believe that Jesus Was Resurrected?
  • Grave Robbers or Magic
  • 300 Year Gap
  • You Don’t Really Expect Us to Believe That, Do You?
  • Garbage In, Garbage Out
  • Textual Exegesis Will Not Solve

●

Naturalism, Magic, and Religious Belief

  • Vetting Supernatural Knowledge Claims
  • No Vital Spirits
  • Doubt vs. Dogma
  • Science vs. Faith
  • The Neuroscience of Believing
  • Adding Epicycles to God
  • Self-Deception: Religion and Science are Compatible
  • Science Always Replaces Supernatural Explanations

●

The Epistemology of Atheism

  • Knowing More Than Science
  • God is Not Beyond Logic
  • Sowing the Seeds of Atheism in Rocky Soil
  • Belief as Declaration of Intent
  • Faux Agnosticism
  • Grasping at Possibilities
  • Sinking the Raft I'm Standing On
  • More on the Epistemology of Atheism
  • God is Not Beyond Logic
  • Teaching Atheism
  • Sowing the Seeds of Atheism in Rocky Soil
  • Belief As Declaration of Intent
  • Faux Agnosticism

●

The Psychology of Believing

  • Ghosts, Resurrections, and Bereavement Hallucinations
  • IQ and the Origins of Religions
  • Inside the Mind of a Religious Mystic
  • Santa and the Believers Real Idea of God
  • Intelligence is Inversely Related to Religiousness
  • Would Anything Change Your Mind?
  • Believing is Good for You, Even if it's Nonsense
  • The Forbidden Conclusion
  • The God Projector
  • Non-Cognitive Religious Utterances Produce Beliefs About Reality
  • Remembering God
  • The Hidden Costs of Religious Belief
  • Religion is a Mind Virus
  • How the Surreal Becomes Commonplace
  • Does Sin Corrupt Our Ability to See God?
  • Knowing Your Own Mind About God
  • We Are Wired To Resist the Truth About Pointless Suffering
  • God Blind Spot
  • Isn’t “God” Just Another Word for New Age Nonsense?
  • What if the Lie Really is Good For Us?
  • The God Urge

●

Faith and Atheism

  • My Private Unassailable Knowledge of God
  • Intuiting God
  • Does the Atheist Need to Respond to Faith?
  • Gibberish? Non-Cognitivist Speech Act? or Serious Truth Claim?
  • Science is Not a Religion
  • The So-Called Right To Believe: Confusing Hoping with Justified Believing

●

Problems with Fine Tuning and Design Arguments

  • U.S. District Court: Intelligent Design is a Farce
  • The RNA World
  • MacGyver-ing the Universe
  • 4 Modern Views about the Universe
  • Design Shows That There Is No God
  • God and the Big Bang
  • Current Theories of Abiogenesis
  • Design Shows that there's No God
  • How Probable is God?
  • Fine Tuning's Fatal Flaw
  • How Big Would God's Universe Be?
  • Bogus Probabilistic Judgmetns and God
  • Can We Find Evidence for the Divine Properties in the Universe?
  • God is Not a Watchmaker
  • We Don't Have the Right Dataset to make the Design Argument

●

Evil and God

  • Evil Isn't the Problem, the Concept of God Is
  • Another Paradox for the Soul Building Defense: God Has No Virtue, and
    Humans are More Virtuous Than God
  • Heaven and Justifications for Evil
  • God’s Evil
  • If There is a Satan, Then There Is No God
  • God and Suffering
  • The Paradox of the Soul Building Defense for Evil
  • God or Gratuitous Evil?
  • The Double Standard of God’s Goodness
  • The Super Evil Challenge
  • Is Heaven Guilt Money?
  • The Inductive Problem of Evil Argument for Atheism
  • What Would Make the Atheist Happy?

●

Religious Tolerance and Atheism

  • Retraction Retraction: Imagining No Religion
  • Freedom of Speech, Only For the Religious. Freedom of Thought, but only for
    Religious Thoughts
  • The Duplicity of Religious Moderation
  • Don’t Like My Tone? Am I Being Rude?
  • There is No Right To Religious Belief
  • Jerry Falwell: Exploiting Religious Tolerance and Respect
  • Is Religious Education Child Abuse?
  • Treating Religious Affiliation as Ethnicity
  • The So-Called Right To Believe: Confusing Hoping with Justified Believing

●

Problems with Immortality posts

  • Still Think You've Got an Immortal Soul? You Need a New Brain
  • When Do We Die?
  • Employee of the Month: God
  • Dead As A Doornail
  • What's Desirable About Heaven?
  • There is no Psychic Contact with the Dead
  • What Would be Evidence of Life After Death?

●

Problems with Miracles

  • A God Who Performs Miracles is Evil
  • God Wouldn’t Do Miracles
  • God Doesn’t Do Miracles—full version article draft
  • Top Ten Suggestions for Performing Better Miracles
  • Begging the Question: Miracles and Nature
  • Miracles Make it Harder to Prove God Is Good
  • You Don’t Really Believe in Miracles
  • Miracles Prove that There is No God

●

Other Articles by Prof. McCormick

  • God Would Not Perform Miracles (draft)
  • Problems for the Miracles of Jesus (draft)
  • Against the Immortality of the Soul, published in Death and Anti-Death.
  • Why God Cannot Think, reprinted in The Improbability of God

●

Links:

  • Debunking Christianity--John Loftus
  • Atheist Student Organization (CSUS)
  • Interview with Matt McCormick in Capitol Weekly
  • Feature Article about Prof. McCormick's Atheism Seminar
  • Article in CSUS Hornet about Atheism and Christmas, features Matt McCormick
    and several of his students
  • Why God Cannot Think, published in Philo, McCormick
  • Prof. McCormick's Academic Webpage
  • Prof. McCormick's Atheism Seminar
  • Sam Harris's Webpage, author of The End of Faith and Letter to a Christian
    Nation
  • Richard Dawkins, author of The Blind Watchmaker, The God Delusion, and
    other important books.
  • Superstition as a Natural Phenomenon
  • Business Communications Group

●

Books:

  • Schellenberg, J.L. Divine Hiddenness and Human Reason
  • God and the Problem of Evil, ed. William Rowe
  • Stenger, Victor. God: The Failed Hypothesis
  • Ehrman, Bart. Lost Christianities
  • Mackie, J.L. The Miracle of Theism
  • Everitt, Nicholas. The Non-Existence of God
  • Gale, Richard. On the Nature and Existence of God
  • Martin, Michael. Atheism, A Philosophical Justification
  • Russell, Bertrand. Why I Am Not a Christian
  • The Cambridge Companion to Atheism. Ed. Martin.
  • The Improbability of God. Eds. Martin and Monnier.
  • The Impossibility of God. Eds. Martin and Monnier
  • Dawkins, Richard. The God Delusion.
  • Dennett, Daniel. Breaking the Spell.
  • Harris, Sam. The End of Faith, Letter to a Christian Nation.

●

Quotes:

"Science. It works, bitches."

"The God of the Old Testament is arguably the most unpleasant character in all
fiction: jealous and proud of it; a petty, unjust, unforgiving control-freak; a
vindictive, bloodthirsty ethnic cleanser; a misogynistic, homophobic, racist,
infanticidal, genocidal, filicidal, pestilential, megalomaniacal,
sadomasochistic, capriciously malevolent bully." - Richard Dawkins, The God
Delusion

"Religion easily has the greatest bullshit story ever told. Think about it.
Religion has actually convinced people that there's an invisible man living in
the sky who watches everything you do, every minute of every day. And the
invisible man has a special list of ten things he does not want you to do. And
if you do any of these ten things he has a special place, full of fire and
smoke and burning and torture and anguish where he will send you to live and
suffer and burn and choke and scream and cry for ever and ever until the end of
time. But he loves you! He loves you and he needs money!" George Carlin 1937 -
2008

Many Paths, No God.

I don't go to church, I AM a church, for fuck's sake. I'm MINISTRY. --Al
Jourgensen

Every sect, as far as reason will help them, make use of it gladly; and where
it fails them, they cry out, “It is a matter of faith, and above reason.”
- John Locke, An Essay Concerning Human Understanding


If life evolved, then there isn't anything left for God to do.

The universe is not fine-tuned for humanity. Humanity is fine-tuned to the
universe. Victor Stenger

Skeptical theists choose to ride the trolley car of skepticism concerning the
goods that God would know so as to undercut the evidential argument from evil.
But once on that trolley car it may not be easy to prevent that skepticism from
also undercutting any reasons they may suppose they have for thinking that God
will provide them and the worshipful faithful with life everlasting in his
presence. William Rowe


Unless you're one of those Easter-bunny vitalists who believes that personality
results from some unquantifiable divine spark, there's really no alternative to
the mechanistic view of human nature. Peter Watts

The essence of humanity's spiritual dilemma is that we evolved genetically to
accept one truth and discovered another. E.O. Wilson

Creating humans who could understand the contrast between good and evil without
subjecting them to eons of horrible suffering would be an utterly
inconsequential matter for an omnipotent being. MM

The second commandment is "Thou shall not construct any graven images." Is this
really the pinnacle of what we can achieve morally? The second most important
moral principle for all the generations of humanity? It would be so easy to
improve upon the 10 Commandments. How about "Try not to deep fry all of your
food"? Sam Harris

Religion comes from the period of human prehistory where nobody--not even the
mighty Democritus who concluded that all matter was made from atoms--had the
smallest idea what was going on. It comes from the bawling and fearful infancy
of our species, and is a babyish attempt to meet our inescapable demand for
knowledge (as well as comfort, reassurance, and other infantile needs). Today
the least educated of my children knows much more about the natural order than
any of the founders of religion, and one would think--though the connection is
not a fully demonstrable one--that this is why they seem so uninterested in
sending fellow humans to hell.
Christopher Hitchens, God is Not Great

We believe with certainty that an ethical life can be lived without religion.
And we know for a fact that the corollary holds true--that religion has caused
innumerable people not just to conduct themselves no better than others, but to
award themselves permission to behave in ways that would make a brothel-keeper
or an ethnic cleanser raise an eyebrow. Christopher Hitchens, God Is Not Great

If atheism is a religion, then not playing chess is a hobby.

"Imagine a world in which generations of human beings come to believe that
certain films were made by God or that specific software was coded by him.
Imagine a future in which millions of our descendants murder each other over
rival interpretations of Star Wars or Windows 98. Could anything--anything--be
more ridiculous? And yet, this would be no more ridiculous than the world we
are living in." Sam Harris, The End of Faith, 36.

"Only a tiny fraction of corpses fossilize, and we are lucky to have as many
intermediate fossils as we do. We could easily have had no fossils at all, and
still the evidence for evolution from other sources, such as molecular genetics
and geographical distribution, would be overwhelmingly strong. On the other
hand, evolution makes the strong prediction that if a single fossil turned up
in the wrong geological stratum, the theory would be blown out of the water." 
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 127.

One cannot take, "believing in X gives me hope, makes me moral, or gives me
comfort," to be a reason for believing X. It might make me moral if I believe
that I will be shot the moment I do something immoral, but that doesn't make it
possible for me to believe it, or to take its effects on me as reasons for
thinking it is true. Matt McCormick
●

Add this blog to your Google Page

Add to Google
●

Top Ten Myths about Belief in God

1. Myth: Without God, life has no meaning.


    There are 1.2 billion Chinese who have no predominant religion, and 1
    billion people in India who are predominantly Hindu. And 65% of Japan's 127
    million people claim to be non-believers. It is laughable to suggest that
    none of these billions of people are leading meaningful lives.



2. Myth: Prayer works.


    Numerous studies have now shown that remote, blind, inter-cessionary prayer
    has no effect whatsoever of the health or well-being of subject's health,
    psychological states, or longevity. Furthermore, we have no evidence to
    support the view that people who wish fervently in their heads for things
    that they want get those things at any higher rate than people who do not.



3. Myth: Atheists are less decent, less moral, and overall worse people than
believers.


    There are hundreds of millions of non-believers on the planet living
    normal, decent, moral lives. They love their children, care about others,
    obey laws, and try to keep from doing harm to others just like everyone
    else. In fact, in predominately non-believing countries such as in northern
    Europe, measures of societal health such as life expectancy at birth, adult
    literacy, per capita income, education, homicide, suicide, gender equality,
    and political coercion are better than they are in believing societies.



4. Myth: Belief in God is compatible with the descriptions, explanations and
products of science.


    In the past, every supernatural or paranormal explanation of phenomena that
    humans believed turned out to be mistaken; science has always found a
    physical explanation that revealed that the supernatural view was a myth.
    Modern organisms evolved from lower life forms, they weren't created 6,000
    years ago in the finished state. Fever is not caused by demon possession.
    Bad weather is not the wrath of angry gods. Miracle claims have turned out
    to be mistakes, frauds, or deceptions. So we have every reason to conclude
    that science will continue to undermine the superstitious worldview of
    religion.


5. Myth: We have immortal souls that survive the death of the body.


    We have mountains of evidence that makes it clear that our consciousness,
    our beliefs, our desires, our thoughts all depend upon the proper
    functioning of our brains our nervous systems to exist. So when the brain
    dies, all of these things that we identify with the soul also cease to
    exist. Despite the fact that billions of people have lived and died on this
    planet, we do not have a single credible case of someone's soul, or
    consciousness, or personality continuing to exist despite the demise of
    their bodies. Allegations of spirit chandlers, psychics, ghost stories, and
    communications with the dead have all turned out to be frauds, deceptions,
    mistakes, and lies.



6. Myth: If there is no God, everything is permitted. Only belief in God makes
people moral.


    Consider the billions of people in China, India, and Japan above. If this
    claim was true, none of them would be decent moral people. So Ghandi, the
    Buddha, and Confucius, to name only a few were not moral people on this
    view, not to mention these other famous atheists: Abraham Lincoln, Albert
    Einstein, Aldous Huxley, Charles Darwin, Benjamin Franklin, Carl Sagan,
    Bertrand Russell, Elizabeth Cady-Stanton, John Stuart Mill, Galileo, George
    Bernard Shaw, Gloria Steinam, James Madison, John Adams, and so on.



7. Myth: Believing in God is never a root cause of significant evil.


    The counter examples of cases where it was someone's belief in God that was
    the direct justification for their perpetrated horrendous evils on
    humankind are too numerous to mention.



8. Myth: The existence of God would explain the origins of the universe and
humanity.


    All of the questions that allegedly plague non-God attempts to explain our
    origins--why are we here, where are we going, what is the point of it all,
    why is the universe here--still apply to the faux explanation of God. The
    suggestion that God created everything does not make it any clearer to us
    where it all came from, how he created it, why he created it, where it is
    all going. In fact, it raises even more difficult mysteries: how did God,
    operating outside the confines of space, time, and natural law "create" or
    "build" a universe that has physical laws? We have no precedent and maybe
    no hope of answering or understanding such a possibility. What does it mean
    to say that some disembodied, spiritual being who knows everything and has
    all power, "loves" us, or has thoughts, or goals, or plans? How could such
    a being have any sort of personal relationship with beings like us?



9. Myth: Even if it isn't true, there's no harm in my believing in God anyway.


    People's religious views inform their voting, how they raise their
    children, what they think is moral and immoral, what laws and legislation
    they pass, who they are friends and enemies with, what companies they
    invest in, where they donate to charities, who they approve and disapprove
    of, who they are willing to kill or tolerate, what crimes they are willing
    to commit, and which wars they are willing to fight. How could any
    reasonable person think that religious beliefs are insignificant.



10: Myth: There is a God.
●

Common Criticisms of Atheism (and Why They’re Mistaken)


1. You can’t prove atheism. You can never prove a negative, so atheism requires
as much faith as religion.


Atheists are frequently accosted with this accusation, suggesting that in order
for non-belief to be reasonable, it must be founded on deductively certain
grounds. Many atheists within the deductive atheology tradition have presented
just those sorts of arguments, but those arguments are often ignored. But more
importantly, the critic has invoked a standard of justification that almost
none of our beliefs meet. If we demand that beliefs are not justified unless we
have deductive proof, then all of us will have to throw out the vast majority
of things we currently believe—oxygen exists, the Earth orbits the Sun, viruses
cause disease, the 2008 summer Olympics were in China, and so on. The believer
has invoked one set of abnormally stringent standards for the atheist while
helping himself to countless beliefs of his own that cannot satisfy those
standards. Deductive certainty is not required to draw a reasonable conclusion
that a claim is true.


As for requiring faith, is the objection that no matter what, all positions
require faith? Would that imply that one is free to just adopt any view they
like? Religiousness and non-belief are on the same footing? (they aren’t). If
so, then the believer can hardly criticize the non-believer for not believing.
Is the objection that one should never believe anything on the basis of faith? 
Faith is a bad thing? That would be a surprising position for the believer to
take, and, ironically, the atheist is in complete agreement.


2. The evidence shows that we should believe.


If in fact there is sufficient evidence to indicate that God exists, then a
reasonable person should believe it. Surprisingly, very few people pursue this
line as a criticism of atheism. But recently, modern versions of the design and
cosmological arguments have been presented by believers that require serious
consideration. Many atheists cite a range of reasons why they do not believe
that these arguments are successful. If an atheist has reflected carefully on
the best evidence presented for God’s existence and finds that evidence
insufficient, then it’s implausible to fault them for irrationality, epistemic
irresponsibility, or for being obviously mistaken. Given that atheists are so
widely criticized, and that religious belief is so common and encouraged
uncritically, the chances are good that any given atheist has reflected more
carefully about the evidence.


3. You should have faith.


Appeals to faith also should not be construed as having prescriptive force the
way appeals to evidence or arguments do. The general view is that when a person
grasps that an argument is sound, that imposes an epistemic obligation of sorts
on her to accept the conclusion. One person’s faith that God exists does not
have this sort of inter-subjective implication. Failing to believe what is
clearly supported by the evidence is ordinarily irrational. Failure to have
faith that some claim is true is not similarly culpable. At the very least,
having faith, where that means believing despite a lack of evidence or despite
contrary evidence is highly suspect. Having faith is the questionable practice,
not failing to have it.


4. Atheism is bleak, nihilistic, amoral, dehumanizing, or depressing.


These accusations have been dealt with countless times. But let’s suppose that
they are correct. Would they be reasons to reject the truth of atheism? They
might be unpleasant affects, but having negative emotions about a claim doesn’t
provide us with any evidence that it is false. Imagine upon hearing news about
the Americans dropping atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki someone
steadfastly refused to believe it because it was bleak, nihilistic, amoral,
dehumanizing, or depressing. Suppose we refused to believe that there is an
AIDS epidemic that is killing hundreds of thousands of people in Africa on the
same grounds.


5. Atheism is bad for you. Some studies in recent years have suggested that
people who regularly attend church, pray, and participate in religious
activities are happier, live longer, have better health, and less depression.


First, these results and the methodologies that produced them have been
thoroughly criticized by experts in the field. Second, it would be foolish to
conclude that even if these claims about quality of life were true, that
somehow shows that there is theism is correct and atheism is mistaken. What
would follow, perhaps, is that participating in social events like those in
religious practices are good for you, nothing more. There are a number of
obvious natural explanations. Third, it is difficult to know the direction of
the causal arrow in these cases. Does being religious result in these positive
effects, or are people who are happier, healthier, and not depressed more
inclined to participate in religions for some other reasons? Fourth, in a
number of studies atheistic societies like those in northern Europe scored
higher on a wide range of society health measures than religious societies.


6. Atheists and atheist political regimes have committed horrible crimes
against humanity. Josef Stalin, Chairman Mao, Pol Pot, perhaps Hitler, and
their atheistic tyrannies tortured and murdered millions.


Given that atheists make up a tiny proportion of the world’s population, and
that religious governments and ideals have held sway globally for thousands of
years, believers will certainly lose in a contest over “who has done more
harm,” or “which ideology has caused more human suffering.” It has not been
atheism because atheists have been widely persecuted, tortured, and killed for
centuries nearly to the point of extinction.


Sam Harris has argued that the problem with these regimes has been that they
became too much like religions. “Such regimes are dogmatic to the core and
generally give rise to personality cults that are indistinguishable from cults
of religious hero worship. Auschwitz, the gulag, and the killing fields were
not examples of what happens when human beings reject religious dogma; they are
examples of political, racial and nationalistic dogma run amok. There is no
society in human history that ever suffered because its people became too
reasonable.”


7. Atheists are harsh, intolerant, and hateful of religion.


Sam Harris has advocated something he calls “conversational intolerance.” For
too long, a confusion about religious tolerance has led people to look the
other way and say nothing while people with dangerous religious agendas have
undermined science, the public good, and the progress of the human race. There
is no doubt that people are entitled to read what they choose, write and speak
freely, and pursue the religions of their choice. But that entitlement does not
guarantee that the rest of us must remain silent or not verbally criticize or
object to their ideas and their practices, especially when they affect all of
us. Religious beliefs have a direct affect on who a person votes for, what wars
they fight, who they elect to the school board, what laws they pass, who they
drop bombs on, what research they fund (and don’t), which social programs they
fund (and don’t), and a long list of other vital, public matters. Atheists are
under no obligation to remain silent about those beliefs and practices that
urgently need to be brought into the light and reasonably evaluated.

Real respect for humanity will not be found by indulging your neighbor’s
foolishness, or overlooking dangerous mistakes. Real respect is found in
disagreement. The most important thing we can do for each other is disagree
vigorously and thoughtfully so that we can all get closer to the truth.


8. Science is as much a religious ideology as religion is.


At their cores, religions and science have a profound difference. The essence
of religion is sustaining belief in the face of doubts, obeying authority, and
conforming to a fixed set of doctrines. By contrast, the most important
discovery that humans have ever made is the scientific method. The essence of
that method is diametrically opposed to religious ideals: actively seek out
disconfirming evidence. The cardinal virtues of the scientific approach are to
doubt, analyze, critique, be skeptical, and always be prepared to draw a
different conclusion if the evidence demands it.

●

Get this Blog by email, by FeedBlitz

Your email address:
[                    ]
[Get email updates]
Powered by FeedBlitz

●

Archive:

  • ▼  2015 (8)
      □ ▼  June (5)
          ☆ Why Would an AI System Need Phenomenal Consciousne...
          ☆ Artificial Intelligence and Conscious Attention--J...
          ☆ Evil Demonology and Artificial Intelligence
          ☆ Turing and Machine Minds
          ☆ Building Self-Aware Machines
      □ ►  April (1)
      □ ►  March (2)

  • ►  2014 (7)
      □ ►  April (2)
      □ ►  March (1)
      □ ►  February (1)
      □ ►  January (3)

  • ►  2013 (24)
      □ ►  December (7)
      □ ►  November (1)
      □ ►  October (1)
      □ ►  August (1)
      □ ►  June (2)
      □ ►  April (2)
      □ ►  March (3)
      □ ►  February (2)
      □ ►  January (5)

  • ►  2012 (39)
      □ ►  December (8)
      □ ►  November (6)
      □ ►  October (7)
      □ ►  September (5)
      □ ►  August (2)
      □ ►  July (1)
      □ ►  June (1)
      □ ►  May (1)
      □ ►  April (1)
      □ ►  March (4)
      □ ►  February (3)

  • ►  2011 (34)
      □ ►  November (2)
      □ ►  October (1)
      □ ►  September (1)
      □ ►  August (2)
      □ ►  July (3)
      □ ►  June (3)
      □ ►  May (6)
      □ ►  April (3)
      □ ►  March (4)
      □ ►  February (3)
      □ ►  January (6)

  • ►  2010 (35)
      □ ►  December (5)
      □ ►  October (2)
      □ ►  September (3)
      □ ►  August (1)
      □ ►  July (1)
      □ ►  June (1)
      □ ►  May (3)
      □ ►  April (7)
      □ ►  March (3)
      □ ►  February (3)
      □ ►  January (6)

  • ►  2009 (41)
      □ ►  December (5)
      □ ►  October (2)
      □ ►  September (3)
      □ ►  August (2)
      □ ►  July (1)
      □ ►  June (3)
      □ ►  May (3)
      □ ►  April (6)
      □ ►  March (4)
      □ ►  February (7)
      □ ►  January (5)

  • ►  2008 (91)
      □ ►  December (13)
      □ ►  November (7)
      □ ►  October (4)
      □ ►  September (8)
      □ ►  August (7)
      □ ►  July (3)
      □ ►  June (6)
      □ ►  May (7)
      □ ►  April (7)
      □ ►  March (12)
      □ ►  February (7)
      □ ►  January (10)

  • ►  2007 (53)
      □ ►  December (6)
      □ ►  November (4)
      □ ►  October (7)
      □ ►  September (5)
      □ ►  August (6)
      □ ►  July (3)
      □ ►  June (5)
      □ ►  May (3)
      □ ►  April (4)
      □ ►  March (4)
      □ ►  February (3)
      □ ►  January (3)

  • ►  2006 (5)
      □ ►  December (5)

●

Visitors to this site:

Free Hit Counter
Free Counter
●
 
