       • Home
NNFR   • About
       • Contact

Science Based Living- Shedding Fear and Superstition 

.

Noam Chomsky Speaking The Truth
Sometimes you just have to listen to someone who knows.   Noam really sets
things straight, offering rational ideas backed by sound reasoning.  I hope you
enjoy.

Deadly Microbes: How A Dental Assistant Saved My Life

If there's anything that is consistent in life and can be found to be true no
matter where you go in the world in the matter when, is that everybody is
afraid of the dentist. I myself am in the majority in this case and that one of
my greatest fears in life besides drowning and that of putting, is my annual
trip to the dentist.

Though the story has a happy ending, and it is all thanks to the wonderful
dental assistant who works in my dentist's office. It all started about six
months ago when I was eating some popcorn. I remember biting down on one of the
hard kernels and feeling searing pain in my tooth. I feared the worst! So doing
what any sane individual would do, I ignored it for as long as possible.

As days turned into weeks and weeks turned into months, the pain in my tooth
only got worse. I knew that eventually I would have no choice but to go visit
the dentist. Having dental work done has always been one of my greatest fears
in life. As a child I was subjected to the tortures of the sadistic man who
called himself a dental professional.

Well one day, I don't remember exactly what it was that I was eating but I bit
down and the pain was so excruciating that I so white and almost passed out. I
knew I couldn't go on any longer and was time to make that appointment. When I
called the dental assistant who worked in the office answered the phone and I
explained my situation. She told me it sounded serious and that I should come
in as soon as possible I made an appointment for the next day.

That night I could hardly sleep, one reason being the horrendous pain I was in
and the other being the mental agony I was suffering at the thought of my trip
to the dentist tomorrow. I woke up after getting maybe an hour's rest, it made
my way down to the dentist office.

There is a you and this office I was greeted by a young girl who was the dental
assistant, she smiled at me and told me to have a seat. At this point I started
to feel sick, I was visibly shaking and sweat was beating on my four head. The
longer I sat there waiting the more sick I felt what was probably only a few
minutes started to feel like ours. As I looked around the waiting room the
walls started to narrow in the room along the zone is experiencing tunnel
vision from the extreme distress I was in.

I had had enough, I didn't care how much pain I was and I was getting the hell
out of there. I told the dental assistant at the desk that something came up
and I had to go. Looking slightly amused she smiled at me and asked if
everything was okay, I guess it was pretty obvious from my flop sweat and
started I was having an anxiety attack. I was so nervous I couldn't even think
of anything to say, so I said I don't remember but think I have something to
do.

Being a professional dental assistant, she knew exactly what to say to me and
how to deal with my anxiety. She did this by putting the fear of God into me as
to what would happen if I didn't take care of that tooth infection. She
explained to me that there were numerous microbes and bacteria multiplying
inside of my mouth, and that certain other kids in my mouth would become
infected. Not only that but the microbes could also spread to my heart causing
heart damage really get into my bloodstream and cause sepsis leading to death.

These microbes that were causing my infection with nothing to play around with.
The dental assistant explained to me just how serious the whole situation was
and how I really didn't have a choice and to just sit down and wait to be
called in. Now I had forgotten all about my fear of the dentist's suddenly
scheduled death of the microbes living in my mouth.

I found the courage through my intense fear of bacteria to stick it out and
have my tooth taken care of. It turned out that a course of antibiotics was all
that are needed to quell the pain into rid myself of the bacterial infection.
The dentist also explained to me what would've happened had I left the office
in the infection spread to the rest of my body. Most likely I would've ended up
in the hospital possibly critical.

So I owe my life to the dental assistant works in my dentist's office. Had it
not been for her the story may not have ever been told as I might not be around
to tell. Never mess around with microbes and bacteria-based infections. You
never know when they can spread to another party or body and cause serious
complications.

Picture

No Need For Religion

NNFR - here to encourage a non-religious, humanist and secular understanding of
the world. We are here to express rational views and to share multiple forms of
information. Throughout this website, you can find many resources ranging from
book recommendations, debates, discussions, interviews, additional websites and
so forth. Also, you can sign up at the forum section to get involved and become
part of the community.
Create a free website
Powered by  
Create your own free website

Start your own free website

A surprisingly easy drag & drop site creator. Learn more.
Photo used under Creative Commons from Iqbal Osman1
Quantcast
✕
