Open Parachute

Skip to content

  • Home
  • Fluoridation
  • Fluoride debate
  • About me
  • Links
  • Archive
  • Blog ranks

[mountain-crop1]
← Older posts

Cultural and ideological bias in scientific literature reviews

Posted on January 12, 2016 | 8 comments

 

[bad-scienc]

The scientific community is international but it is surely dominated, and
influenced by, something less international – the overwhelming predominance of
 the use of the English language.

In the past when that dominance was less extreme scientists were more aware of
the need to use non-English sources. Scientific degree courses often had a
requirement for a degree of scientific fluency in an alternative language. I
learned German and Russian and have often needed to translate scientific papers
in both these languages. In fact, several times I can trace a breakthrough
in my research to a Russian or German paper I translated.

So, I was often disappointed when searching the literature to come across
papers in a less dominant language like Mongolian, Ukrainian, Byelorussian,
Arabic, etc. Very often these were published in unattainable obscure journals
or periodicals. While I was aware that such papers were perhaps of poor quality
I still lamented my inability to check that out for myself. I felt I  might be
missing something useful.

I can’t help thinking that scientific reviews, even systematic ones, may suffer
from such omissions. After all the problems of expense and the probably poor
quality of obscure papers usually mean that even systematic reviewers will not
be able to obtain obscure papers and their translations.

But there is the other side. What happens if ideologically motivated groups
able to make the financial investment obtain and translate obscure papers which
fit their political or commercial biases? Can that not result in the “skewing”
of readily available literature? Could it result ion the wider availability and
influence of poor quality research?

One would hope scientific reviewers critically and intelligently appraise the
papers they review. This would help prevent promotion of poor science. But not
all scientific reviewers may be that objective. And certainly, such poor
quality science can be promoted in the popular literature and used for
political and ideological campaigns.

Bad science promoting the fluoridation/IQ myth

This is what has happened with the promotion of the fluoride/IQ myth by
anti-fluoride campaigners. Several years ago the Fluoride Action Network (the
main activist group campaigning against community water fluoridation
internationally) paid for the searching out, and translation into English,
obscure articles (mainly Chinese) suggesting a link between fluoride in
drinking water and child IQ. These articles represented in almost all cases
poor quality research mostly published in obscure journals, newsletters and
conferences. Given the bias of FAN, preference was clearly given to articles
supporting their party line.

The result is that these articles have now entered into English language
scientific literature – via publication of the translations in the journal
Fluoride – a poor quality, English language journal, linked organisationally
and financially to FAN. This has introduced an ideologically promoted skewing
of the available literature – on top of the well-understood publication bias
(negative results are rarely published). Such skewing is important for
reviewers such as those in the US  National Toxicology Program considering a
new systematic review on (see Fluoride and IQ – another study coming up).

Don’t get me wrong. Despite the biases of this translation process I like to
see such obscure studies, even poor quality one, made available to researchers.
And sensible, conscientious reviewers will take the poor quality into account.
But less objective researchers can opportunistically use such material to
support their preferred hypothesis. This has happened with the fluoridation
issue, for example, with the paper of Grandjean & Landrigan (2014) which is
continually used by anti-fluoride campaigners (see Repeating bad science
on fluoride). This is a secondary effect where the poor quality research that
is selected, translated and published in a poor quality journal like Fluoride
can then make its way into more reputable journals (like The Lancet) without
any further evidence. Adding to the skewing of the available scientific
literature.

And all of this provides ammunition to the unscrupulous ideologically motivated
campaigners. Critical assessment of the research is the last thing on their
minds and they are certainly not in  the habit of even reading, let alone
critically understanding, the papers they promote in  their arguments.

Similar articles

8 Comments

Posted in SciBlogs, science, Science and Society

Tagged fluoridation, fluoride, IQ, SciBlogs, scientific reviews

Facts, beliefs and delusions

Posted on January 7, 2016 | 1 comment

beliefs

Here are some memes I have come across lately.

It’s amazing how people will fight to protect dearly held beliefs against
obvious evidence.

perception

And it is amazing how strong beliefs can actually influence what we see – or
what we think we see.

know I am right

I guess we all suffer from delusions from time to time. Confirmation bias comes
easily to humans.

But we shouldn’t make a habit of it!

Similar articles

1 Comment

Posted in atheism, SciBlogs, science, Science and Society

Tagged delusions, memory, SciBlogs

Science – a method of investigation, not a belief system

Posted on January 6, 2016 | 88 comments

clees

Love this tweet from John Cleese.

There is the obvious point about “belief.” Many people seem to think the
scientific knowledge is a matter of belief and, in their eyes, something that
can be subjectively chosen. That is ridiculous.

But also the wise stress on science as a method of investigation and not just a
body of knowledge. Scientific knowledge is always imperfect and is dynamic
changing with new data – but not in  an arbitrary or chaotic way.

However imperfect our current knowledge the scientific method holds out
possibilities for its improvement. And however may “mistakes” the cynic can
find in our scientific knowledge they are always unable to suggest a way of
correcting these mistakes except more science.

Science as a method of investigation remains by far the best way we have of
understanding objective reality.

Similar articles

88 Comments

Posted in atheism, philosophy, SciBlogs, science, Science and Society

Tagged SciBlogs

Yet another misrepresentation of a dental health study

Posted on January 4, 2016 | 8 comments

You should not trust what you read on the web – especially if you read it on a
site like Free Thought Project.com. And if the article is citing a scientific
paper to give it authority you can be certain it misrepresents the paper.

Here is yet another example of this. An article citing a research paper as
“proof” that fluoridation does not work – yet the paper doesn’t even include
the word fluoride or fluoridation!

The Free Thought Project.com article is Study Shows Brits Have Way Better Teeth
than Americans – And Far Less Fluoride in the Water
and it cites, but misrepresent this paper:

What did the paper report?

This is the paper:

CC Guarnizo-Herreño, G Tsakos, A Sheiham et al. Austin Powers bites back: a
cross sectional comparison of US and English national oral health surveys. BMJ

It’s available in full text so you can check for yourself.

It examines “the longstanding belief in the United States that the British have
horrible teeth, much worse than US citizens.” And it concludes:

    “The oral health of US citizens is not better than the English, and there
    are consistently wider educational and income oral health inequalities in
    the US compared with England.”

So – nothing about fluoride, but information on social inequalities which are
known to be a factor in oral health. But this will not stop anti-fluoride
campaigners using this in their campaigns – while ignoring the important
conclusions about the role of socioeconomic inequalities in oral health.

What was measured?

The study considered only one clinical measure of oral health status – the
number of missing teeth. The other two outcomes considered were “self-rated
oral health” and “oral impacts on daily life.” Only participants 25 years and
older were selected. The study used data from the English Adult Dental Health
Survey and the US National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey.

The influence of dietary fluoride intake was NOT considered, but socioeconomic
factors were. In particular educational attainment and household income.

What was found?

In summary:

  • The number of missing teeth were significantly higher in the US than in
    England.
  • Self-rated negative oral impacts on daily life were more prevalent int
    England than the US
  • Self-rated less than good oral health was not significantly different
    between the two countries.

There was an interesting difference with age. The number of missing teeth and
the numbers with no teeth were higher in the US for the age group 25-64. Yet
the number of missing teeth were higher in England for the over 65 age group.

Socioeconomic factors showed statistically significant effects on all three
outcomes as illustrated in this figure from the paper. The “relative index of
inequality” was effectively a measure of how the outcome increased as
inequality in education or income increased in each country.

Austin Powers

Conclusions

Given the prevailing beliefs in the US it may be a little surprising that the
study found English oral health better than in the US – at least for
measurements related to missing teeth. However, it is not suprising that
socioeconomic inequalities influence the oral health of a nation – with, of
course, those at the bottom of the heap having the poorer oral health.

I guess it is also not surprising to find that there are “consistently wider
educational and income related oral health inequalities in the US compared with
England.”

So, there is probably an argument there for improved welfare policies and
better access to, and provision of, dental treatment systems. But it its
misleading to use this study as “evidence ” against community water
fluoridation.

Don’t believe everything you read on the web – especially on sites like Free
Thought Project.com.

Similar articles

8 Comments

Posted in Health and Medicine, SciBlogs, science, Science and Society

Tagged education, England, fluoridation, fluoride, household income, SciBlogs,
USA

December ’15 – NZ blogs sitemeter ranking

Posted on January 1, 2016 | 16 comments

2016 HNY

There are about 300 blogs on the list, although I am weeding out those which
are no longer active or have removed public access to sitemeters. (Let me know
if I weed out yours by mistake or get your stats wrong).

Every month I get queries from people wanting their own blog included. I
encourage and am happy to respond to queries but have prepared a list of
frequently asked questions (FAQs) people can check out. Have a look at NZ Blog
Rankings FAQ. This is particularly helpful to those wondering how to set up
sitemeters. Please note, the system is automatic and relies on blogs having
sitemeters which allow public access to the stats.

Here are the rankings of New Zealand blogs with publicly available statistics
for December 2015. Ranking is by visit numbers. I have listed the blogs in the
table below, together with monthly visits and page view numbers. Meanwhile I am
still keen to hear of any other blogs with publicly available sitemeter or
visitor stats that I have missed. Contact me if you know of any or wish help
adding publicly available stats to your bog.

You can see data for previous months at Blog Ranks

[feed-icon-] Subscribe to NZ Blog Rankings [email002]Subscribe to NZ blog
rankings by Email Find out how to get Subscription & email updates Continue
reading →

16 Comments

Posted in blogging, New Zealand, NZ blog rankings, SciBlogs

Tagged blog rank, page views, SciBlogs, visits

Peer review – the “tyranny” of the third reviewer

Posted on December 30, 2015 | 1 comment

Yes, I know, this video clip is old hat. It’s been used so many times it has
got boring. And, maybe most readers won’t really relate to the way it is used
here.

Still, those who have published scientific papers and suffered the emotional
roller-coaster of peer-review will be aware of the problem of the “third
reviewer.”

The more cynical will describe the peer review process as a bit of a farce.
Usually, a journal will use three reviewers. Many times the first one presents
a glowing, but undetailed report, recommending publication. The second reviewer
will reject the paper out of hand, recommending that no way should it be
published. But their recommendation is similarly undetailed.

The third reviewer will have done the work, hopefully in detail and
conscientiously. And they may recommend publication – but only after their
detailed critiqued is dealt with. But many authors dread their report because
it usually means a lot more work for them – maybe, more experimental work.

I have seen authors get very emotional about specific peer reviews of their
papers – and it is usually the “third reviewer” that upsets them. It means more
work – and the detailed critique seems to be harder to handle than the
undetailed outright rejection of the second reviewer. Perhaps the Hitler video
clip is not too far from the truth.

Still, I think the peer-review process hangs on the “third reviewer.” There
need to be far more reviewers who take their role seriously in this way. The
first two reviewers are just lazy and opinionated – their comments are worth
nothing.

For more on the peer-review process and its problems read Is scientific peer
review a “sacred cow” ready to be slaughtered? « Science-Based Medicine

Similar articles

1 Comment

Posted in SciBlogs, science, Science and Society

Tagged peer review, SciBlogs

Syrian karma

Posted on December 28, 2015 | 2 comments

Karma

The first thing that came to my mind when I saw this was the US/NATO policy (or
excuse for a policy) in Syria – “Assad must go!”

2 Comments

Posted in politics

Tagged humour, NATO, Syria, USA

Christmas – “White Wine In The Sun”

Posted on December 24, 2015 | Leave a comment

 

Leave a comment

Posted in Uncategorized

Tagged Christmas, Tim Minchin, White Wine in the Sun

Community water fluoridation still cost-effective

Posted on December 23, 2015 | 7 comments

Piranha

This was confirmed by a study reported this month in the New Zealand Medical
Journal:

Caroline Fyfe, Barry Borman, Guy Scott, S. B. (2015). A cost effectiveness
analysis of community water fluoridation in New Zealand. New Zealand Medical
Journal, 128(1427).

The study is available to download as a poster presentation here.

Previous studies – most recently in 2001 – had shown CWF to be
cost-effective. However, oral health has improved in both fluoridated and
fluoridated areas so the new study was undertaken to check if CWF “remained a
cost-effective public health intervention in New Zealand in the 21st century.”

The results show that CWF is still cost-effective. The post concludes:

    “This cost effectiveness analysis supports an earlier economic analysis of
    community water fluoridation in New Zealand by Wright et. al. (2001) 3 .
    CWF remained a cost effective public health intervention in New Zealand
    despite an overall reduction in dental caries. This finding also agrees
    with a number of economic analyses of CWF conducted in countries similar to
    New Zealand, 7, 9-11 . It should be noted however, that for smaller
    communities cost effectiveness was more marginal. Wright et. al. (2001)
    identified a ‘break even’ community size for CWF of 700-900 people 3 . In
    smaller communities cost effectiveness was more dependent on the risk
    profile of the population. CWF would be more cost effective in communities
    with a higher risk of dental caries.”

The reduced cost-effectiveness for smaller communities is due to the relatively
greater per-capita cost of the fluoridation plants and chemicals in such
situations. This table below from the poster gives an idea of how
community size influences the cost-effectiveness of CWF. It might need a bit of
thinking – the negative values are the average annual per capita net cost of
CWF per unit of decayed, missing and filled teeth (dmft/DMFT).
table2

Similar articles

 

 

l

7 Comments

Posted in Health and Medicine, SciBlogs, science, Science and Society

Tagged fluoridation, fluoride, SciBlogs

Democracy and expert advice on scientific issues

Posted on December 22, 2015 | 43 comments

Twitter--science

Image credit: James MacLeod

Layla Parker-Katiraee recently asked the question “Should science be a
democracy?“ in the blog Biofortified. Most readers here would probably
immediately answer no! But hold on. The blog title is a bit misleading. She was
actually posing this about social decisions related to scientific issues – not
about science itself.

Layla gives this example:

    “A January 2015 survey conducted by agricultural economists at Oklahoma
    State found that 82% of Americans want their food labeled if it contains
    GMOs. The same survey found that 80% of Americans want their food labeled
    if it contains DNA.”

She points out that while the scientifically informed may be aghast at such a
result the fact is most of the general public are not scientifically literate –
and we should recognise that:

    “After the initial face-palm, my feelings of intellectual
    superiority gradually ebbed when I realized that my husband would be in the
    80% of the population that doesn’t know that all food, unless it’s highly
    processed, contains DNA. My better-half has a degree in International
    Relations and Peace Studies. He is a consultant with high-tech companies.
    He’s amazing at his job and can charge a premium for his consulting fees.
    It’s safe to say that he is well educated and knows what he’s doing.
    However, his last biology class was 17 years ago.”

And another reason for avoiding intellectual snobbery is that even those who
consider themselves scientifically literate will readily admit they do not
necessarily have at hand the answers to many of the scientific questions posed
by the non-scientifically literate who are campaigning against issues like
GMOs, climate change or community water fluoridation.

So here is the dilemma. On the one hand, social policies should be decided
democratically – or at least by democratically elected bodies. On the other
hand, the public and even the membership of democratically elected bodies are
usually not well-informed about the science involved in many controversial
social policies.

As Layla says:

    “This whole topic raises the question of whether scientific matters (such
    as food labeling) should be decided by a public that is not educated in the
    technical aspects or nuances of an issue. Should scientific matters be
    decided upon democratically?

    Here are just a few examples: the Shasta County Board recently decided to
    look into chemtrails; Portland, Oregon rejects adding fluoride to the
    city’s water; Humbolt county votes to ban GMO production.”

The role of experts

And this despite the fact that society invests in experts to research these
questions and give answers to any questions we may have. As she says:

    “If we, the people, get to decide on such important scientific matters
    democratically, then why do we spend billions of dollars, on institutions
    such as the National Institutes of Health, the National Academy of
    Sciences, USDA, FDA? Do we just fund them so that they can come up with
    recommendations and guidelines which we can then ignore depending on
    whether we find it convenient or if our favorite celebrity endorses it? I
    can use the term “we” here because I pay what feels like a kajillion
    dollars in US taxes, even though I’m not a citizen.

    Each of the examples above has been extensively studied and guidelines have
    been offered. The EPA, NASA, and the FAA joined forces to write a document
     about chemtrails (believe it or not); the EPA and the Department of Health
    and Human services have done scientific assessments on the fluoridation of
    water; the FDA evaluates the safety of all GMOs and regulates them (if
    you’re of the opinion that the FDA is “bought off”, then here’s a report on
    GMOs from the National Academy of Sciences). Our tax dollars funded every
    one of these efforts, yet we’re still taking these issues to the ballot
    box”.

So – we should listen to, or take the advice, of those experts – after all,
that is what we pay them for. And on most issues we happily do that:

    “There are MANY matters where I know very little and feel comfortable
    deferring to experts: what material should be used when highways are built,
    what water purification system my county should use, and so on. My taxes
    paid for all these projects and they impact me directly. I spend 2 hours a
    day in my car. If those highways are not built properly, if the on ramps
    are not sturdy, if the Bay Area bridges are not properly maintained, I
    could be hurt or even die. I fail to see why we defer to subject matter
    experts on these topics, but not on others. I don’t see any direct ballot
    measures to decide on the amount of concrete used when paving a road. Yet
    somehow, we feel that it’s appropriate to tell farmers in Hawaii what they
    can and cannot plant. Somehow, we the people, think we know something that
    a professional in his/her field doesn’t.”

Why reject expert advice?

It is illogical for “we people [to] “think we know something that a
professional in his/her field doesn’t.” Yet it happens – or more correctly –
some of us get fooled into rejecting the advice of the professional expert on
some matters.

Inevitably on these controversial issues where scientific claims are being
bandied about like political slogans one can detect the activity of
ideologically or commercially motivated groups wishing to misrepresent the
science – or worse, personally attack or otherwise seek to discredit the
experts who should be able to give the objective information needed.

The scientifically literate person may, if they have the time, be able to check
out the claims and detect the misrepresentation or distortions promoted by such
groups. But even without the scientific training “we people” can always
maintain a healthy suspicion of any group seeking to discredit expert
scientific advice or defame such experts. We may also be able to check out the
groups themselves – to discover the ideological or commercial motives and
decide whether they are worth listening to.

“The ideal solution here is education”

This is what Layla Parker-Katiraee advocates. This could be helped if more
students were exposed to science and critical analysis in their education.

    “In the meantime, there are a few things we can do:

    1) Encourage children in our circle of influence to take science classes in
    high school and college, even if they’re pursuing a career in an unrelated
    field.

    2) Scientists should step up their communication skills. There aren’t many
    scientists in the private sector involved in science communication or
    education. Many of us have been trained in presentation skills. Giving
    concise explanations or pitches are often required in the private sector.
    There’s no reason why you can’t expand that skill into a part time hobby.

    3) Remember that we all have gaps in our knowledge. Working to fill those
    gaps rather than mocking them will go a long way.”

If we worked to educate ourselves and others in understanding the role and
nature of science and in critical thinking then society would be better able to
handle “controversial” scientific issues requiring democratic decisions.

Similar articles

43 Comments

Posted in belief, Health and Medicine, SciBlogs, science, Science and Society

Tagged climate change, fluoridation, fluoride, GMOs, SciBlogs

← Older posts

  • Search for: [                    ] [Search]
  • Subscribe

    ● Subscribe to Open Parachute
    ● Subscribe to Comments
    ● Subscribe to NZ Blog Rankings
    [email0] Subscribe by Email [email0] Subscribe to NZ blog rankings by Email
    AddThis Feed Button
    Add to Google
    [ranking-bu]
    Open Parachute is syndicated at sciblogslogoweb
    Secular news
    twitter

  • Follow Blog via Email

    Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of
    new posts by email.

    Join 2,089 other followers

    [                    ]

    [Follow]

  • Recent Comments

    [f8e2] Ken on Cultural and ideological bias…
    [8de5] picker22 on Cultural and ideological bias…
    [fe7c] soundhill1 on Cultural and ideological bias…
    [fe7c] soundhill1 on Yet another misrepresentation…
    [fe7c] soundhill1 on Yet another misrepresentation…
    [fe7c] soundhill1 on Science – a method of in…
    [fe7c] soundhill1 on Science – a method of in…
    [8WfL] Brian Ricketts (@Kiw… on Cultural and ideological bias…
    [fe7c] soundhill1 on Cultural and ideological bias…
    [3d1c] Stuartg on Cultural and ideological bias…
    [3d1c] Stuartg on Cultural and ideological bias…
    [8de5] picker22 on Cultural and ideological bias…
    [fe7c] soundhill1 on Science – a method of in…
    [fe7c] soundhill1 on Science – a method of in…
    [9457] David Fierstien on Yet another misrepresentation…
  • Recent Posts

      □ Cultural and ideological bias in scientific literature reviews
      □ Facts, beliefs and delusions
      □ Science – a method of investigation, not a belief system
      □ Yet another misrepresentation of a dental health study
      □ December ’15 – NZ blogs sitemeter ranking
      □ Peer review – the “tyranny” of the third reviewer
      □ Syrian karma
      □ Christmas – “White Wine In The Sun”
      □ Community water fluoridation still cost-effective
      □ Democracy and expert advice on scientific issues
  • Top Posts

      □ Cultural and ideological bias in scientific literature reviews
      □ Science - a method of investigation, not a belief system
      □ Psychological and religious abuse of children
      □ Repeating bad science on fluoride
      □ Yet another misrepresentation of a dental health study
      □ Blog ranks
  • All posts

    [--                                                                               ]
  • Categories

    Categories[Select Category               ]
  • RSS NZ Science Blogs

      □ Synthesis and Applications of Inorganic Materials Derived from
        Aluminium Smelting Waste
      □ Advanced NMR methodologies in rock core analysis
      □ Ethical Responsibility to Distant Others through the Coffee Industry
      □ Chemical genetic interactions of New Zealand bee products in
        Saccharomyces cerevisiae
      □ Tracking the Source of Enantioselectivity
      □ Spatial and temporal regulation of cytokine expression in Type 2 immune
        responses
      □ Peptide-Directed Supramolecular Self-Assembly of N-Substituted Perylene
        Imides
      □ Training the Interpretation of Ambiguity
      □ The Khovanov homology of knots
      □ Demographics of Etmopterus lucifer (Lucifer dogfish)
      □ A dual-trap optical tweezer approach to study emulsion droplet
        interactions
      □ Myth and Reality in Irregular Migration from Myanmar
      □ Recognition Problems for Connectivity Functions
      □ The development of an intellectual property strategy for a
        biotechnology company
      □ Parking Policy Acceptability in Wellington CBD
      □ Assessing the poverty impact of internal resettlement programs on the
        ethnic minorities in Lao PDR
      □ Investigating the Potential Role of SIRT1 in Glioblastoma Multiforme: A
        Comparison Between Glioma and Normal Astrocyte Cells in Culture
      □ Prospects for community-based marine conservation in Nauru: Attitudes,
        policies & institutions
      □ Acculturative stress, religious coping and wellbeing amongst New
        Zealand Muslims
      □ Improving immunotherapy for high grade glioma
  • NBGA
                    The Out Campaign: Scarlet Letter of Atheism

    Current CO2 Level in the Atmosphere



    New Zealand Web Directory and Search Engine [135df041dd]
  • Articles and comments search

    Articles & Comments Search
  • Archives

    Archives [Select Month        ]
  • Add to Favourites

    Post this site to Twitter Add to Technorati Favorites [120x20_su_] Add to
    Google AddThis Social Bookmark Button AddThis Feed Button

  • wordpress visitor
    View All Science Sites Web Analytics Clicky

  • Twitter comments

      □ Cultural and ideological bias in scientific literature reviews:   The
        scientific community is international bu... bit.ly/1ZoPbZy 20 hours ago
      □ Cultural and ideological bias in scientific literature reviews
        openparachute.wordpress.com/2016/01/12/cul… https://t.co/cQ7t3bms1K
        21 hours ago
      □ Facts, beliefs and delusions: Here are some memes I have come across
        lately. It’s amazing how people will figh... bit.ly/1RtNtzQ 5 days ago
      □ Facts, beliefs and delusions openparachute.wordpress.com/2016/01/07/
        fac… https://t.co/tLXQPnh1rL 5 days ago
      □ Science – a method of investigation, not a belief system: Love this
        tweet from John Cleese. There is the obvio... bit.ly/1RpPuNp 1 week ago

Blog at WordPress.com. The Coraline Theme.
Follow

Follow “Open Parachute”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,089 other followers

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
