Freethinkers of UTA

Promoting Science and Reason at the University of Texas at Arlington

More

  • Home
  • News
  • Events
  • Our Constitution
  • What is Freethought?
  • Defending Godlessness
  • Calendar
  • Photos
  • Links
  • DFW Coalition of Reason
  • Secular Student Alliance
  • CFI - On Campus
  • AU On Campus
  • Secular Founding of U.S.
  • Guestbook

Follow @@utafreethinkers
  
 
Check out our neat blog!
 
Submit a suggestion or report a problem to the Freethinkers of UTA

 

                      Welcome to the Freethinkers of UTA!

[332525_462]

 

Freethinkers of UTA is a group where atheists, agnostics, skeptics, humanists,
freethinkers, and anyone who promotes science and reason can come together.


We are a student organization on the campus of the University of Texas at
Arlington.  We hold meetings every other Friday during the semester.  Meetings
usually have a discussion topic that is decided on before the meeting.  We
encourage open dialogue on issues such as: Evolution vs. Intelligent Design,
the Secular Roots of the American Founding, Church/State Separation, Secular
vs. Religious Ethics, the effect of Religion on Society, and much more.


Our purpose is:


- To establish a positive social environment for UTA students who consider
themselves atheists, agnostics, skeptics, rationalists, humanists, and/or
freethinkers.

 

- To enrich the UTA campus life by sponsoring educational events and fostering
student dialogue on matters of faith, science, and reason.

 

- To engage UTA students in issues of national and international importance
surrounding freedom of conscience and secular education.

 

Past events have included: Darwin Day events, a Superstition Bash, a trip to a
local Hell House, a viewing of "A God Who Wasn't There", a field trip to the
Creation Evidence Museum and the Dinosaur Valley State Park, talks by Dan
Barker of the Freedom From Religion Foundation, Lori Lipman Brown of the
Secular Coalition for America, D.J. Grothe from the Center for Inquiry and
"Point of Inquiry" podcast, Ellery Schempp, and much more.

While the majority of our members are current or recent students of UTA, our
meetings and events are not limited to students only.  All of our meeting and
events are open to the public, unless stated otherwise.  If you are interested
in becoming a member of Freethinkers of UTA, please contact 
freethinkersofuta@gmail.com or check out our "News" and "Events" pages for
updates.

 

join our mailing list
* indicates required
Email Address * [                    ]
First Name [                    ]
Last Name [                    ]
Email Format

  • ( )html
  • ( )text
  • ( )mobile

[Subscribe]
Close
Members (Especially Females) Needed for our Oozeball Team!!!

UTA's annual mud volleyball tradition is Friday, September 18 at 12:30pm and we
need more women on our team, the Filthy Heathens per the game rules! We
actually might have enough people to have two teams, and if that's the case, we
still have one slot open for men so even if you're a male, feel free to message
me if interested but we especially need females just to have one team! If you
don't make the team, please show up and support us and you can even be a backup
if someone doesn't show up. See more info here: http://www.uta.edu/campusrec/
oozeball/index.php


Fees and What I Need from YOU!

It is $15 per person and I must have your payment by this Friday, September 11
at 4pm if you want to guarantee a T-shirt that is your size. People who message
me first and are paid members will get priority. If you're not a paid member,
you can pay the $5 fee at the same time you give us the $15. Also, if you
become a paid member, you will get $5 back after you show up and participate in
the Oozeball games. So, if you're interested, message me with your first and
last name, email, phone number, T-shirt size, when you want to meet, and if you
are also going to pay the $5 membership fee. I'm available now until 7pm today,
11am-4pm tomorrow,8am-7pm Thursday, and 10am-4pm Friday. If none of those times
work, tell us when you're available and I'll see if another officer is
available at that time.


Rules

 1. CLOSE TOED SHOES MUST BE WORN DURING THE GAME AND BE TAPED ON. See rest of
    rules in the link

http://www.uta.edu/campusrec/oozeball/oozeball-rules.php

Recommendations

Wear clothes you don't mind getting muddy and bring extra clean clothes to
change into after the game. There will be showerheads to wash off a lot of the
mud though. Even if you're not playing and not being a backup, be sure to wear
shoes you don't mind getting muddy because they WILL get muddy!!! If you're not
playing and don't want to cover yourself with mud, consider bringing sunscreen.
Otherwise, mud serves as a natural sunblock.

Reminder

Oozeball will hopefully be done by 4:30 so don't forget we have a general
discussion meeting right after this at 5pm upstairs in the UC in San Jacinto
room.

Cheers,
Karen Jones
Freethinkersofuta@gmail.com
214-385-0680
http://www.freewebs.com/utafreethinkers/
Report issues or give suggestions
Facebook
Mavorgs

**Freethinkers of UTA is a group where atheists, agnostic, skeptics, humanists,
freethinkers, and anyone who promotes science and reason can come together.
Discussions are from a nontheistic perspective, though all are welcome.**

Breaking! "Stone"-a-Heathen Rescheduled Due to Inclement Weather!

Yep! This Wednesday WFAA is predicting a 90% chance of thunderstorms in the AM
which would put quite a damper on our fundraiser. In light of this, we have
rescheduled our event for the 23rd of September. The good news about this is it
gives YOU another opportunity to take part! It's great fun and heretically
delicious!

Oozeball and Second General Meeting Reminder:
Also don't forget our team, the Filthy Heathens will be playing Oozeball (let
us know if you want to participate ASAP) on Friday, September 18, and our
second meeting is later that same day in San Jacinto (upstairs of the UC).

We look forward to seeing your lovely face!

Fall 2015 Meeting Schedule

Fall 2015 General Meeting and Discussion Schedule:
(All meetings are at UTA in one of the rooms on the 2nd floor of the UC)

5pm-7pm


Friday, September 4 in San Saba
Friday, September 18 in San Jacinto/Neches
Friday, October 2 in San Saba
Friday, October 16 in San Saba
Friday, October 30 in San Saba
Friday, November 13 in TBA
Friday, December 4 in San Saba


The point of general meeting discussions: To have logical and thought provoking
discussions on various topics. Each meeting is given a topic (that was decided
the previous meeting) for us to discuss.


We don't mind if you have to leave early or come in late. The meeting starts at
5pm though you are welcome to hang out with everyone in the UC first, some
people show up as early as 4. We play games and chat. From about 5-5:30, we'll
be discussing upcoming events before we get started in the actual
discussions. After the meeting ends, (around 7) we usually go out to eat and
have a few drinks.

As always our meeting are open to anyone while being centered around the idea
of people who are willing to have an open mind, share some jokes, and present
both logical and thought provoking ideas.



Upcoming Special Events for Fall 2015 semester:


Wednesday, September 9, 2015 - "Stone"-a-Heathen - will do a fun water
splashing fundraiser at some point during this month. Let us know if you want
to help volunteer be emailing Karen Jones at freethinkersofuta@gmail.com


October 25-31 - Graveyard of the Gods & Superstition Bash- We will make a
display of many of the Gods that no one or almost no one believes in anymore.
In addition, we will be doing a Superstition Bash (https://secularstudents.org/
superstitionbash). If you would like to assist making these "tombstones" for
these Gods or help with any other part of the set up, contact Karen Jones at
freethinkersofuta@gmail.com

"Stone"-a-Heathen Poster Making Session

Monday, September 8th, 2014

This is the first of a couple opportunities to come out and make some posters
for heathens to hold up during the event. There will be at least one other
event later this week and/or early next week to make posters and water
balloons. So come out with some stone-able offenses in mind and a marker in
hand. I plan to be upstairs in the UC on Monday at 3:00pm til at least 6pm but
probably longer. I'll have the Freethinker T-shirt on so you guys can find  me.
We'll have some markers on hand but feel free to bring you own crafting
supplies to make a stellar stoning sign.

To get a better idea as to what we're doing, see the following links
"Stone"-a-Heathen Photos on MavOrgs 
"Stone"-a-Heathen details
"Stone"-a-Heathen Fundraiser Event on Facebook - I posted some examples of what
to write on the signs here

Fall 2014 Meeting Schedule

Fall 2014 Meeting Schedule:

 Wednesday, August 27, 2014   Concho, U.C.

 Wednesday, September 10, 2014   Concho, U.C.

 Wednesday, September 24, 2014   Blanco, U.C.

 Wednesday, October 8, 2014   Concho, U.C.

 Wednesday, October 22, 2014   San Jacinto, U.C.

 Wednesday, November 5, 2014   Blanco, U.C.

 Wednesday, November 19, 2014   Palo Pinto, U.C.

 Wednesday, December 3, 2014   Most likely Old School Pizza and Suds


Regular meetings are 5-7:00pm,

Meetup with Metroplex Atheist at 7:00pm at J. Gilligan's Bar & Grill

Creation Evidence Museum and Dinosaur Valley State Park

On Saturday, October 2nd, we will be taking our annual trip to Glen Rose, in
which we will attend the Director's Lecture Series at the Creation Evidence
Museum at 11:00am. Admission is $2/person.

Following the lunacy, we will head down the road to Dinosaur Valley State Park
where we will see some of the best preserved dinosaur tracks in the world.

We will be meeting at 9:00am at the University Center by the Starbucks to
figure out carpool info, etc. Our goal is to leave UTA at 9:15am.

Facebook Event:  http://www.facebook.com/event.php?eid=117018138354699&ref=mf

First Meeting of the Fall Semester

Our first meeting of the Fall semester will be on Tuesday, August 31st at
6:00pm in the Palo Pinto room of the University Center.

Fall 2010 Meeting Schedule

Fall 2010 Meeting Schedule:

 Tuesday, August 31, 2010 - Palo Pinto, U.C.

 Tuesday, September 14, 2010 - Life Science Room 128

 Tuesday, September 28, 2010 - Palo Pinto, U.C.

 Tuesday, October 12, 2010 - Red River, U.C.

 Tuesday, October 26, 2010 - Palo Pinto, U.C.

 Tuesday, November 9, 2010 - Palo Pinto, U.C.

 Tuesday, December 7, 2010 - Palo Pinto, U.C.


Regular meetings are at 6:00pm,

Discussion starts at 6:30pm

Texas Freethought Convention

[Texas]
                                  http://www.texasfreethoughtconvention.com/

 

                                        

                                        


 

                                  [scarlet_A]

 

                                        

                             Questions, Comments, Suggestions? 

                            Contact freethinkersofuta@gmail.com

                                               

 

Create your own free website today
Webs
Better Websites Made Simple Create your own free website today
