Skip to content

USU REASON

Beyond Religion at Utah State University

Menu and widgets

  • Facebook Group
  • About
  • Bylaws
  • Constitution

Search for: [Search]
Subscribe via Email

Join 6 other subscribers

Email Address

[Subscribe]

Recent Comments

  • potman on Is there a link between atheism and veganism?
  • Why I Can’t Stay | Zelph on the Shelf on Deutero-Isaiah in the Book of
    Mormon
  • Montana Polygamists Apply For Wedding License >> Pirate's Cove on Gay
    marriage: A slippery slope to polygamy?

Posts By Date

Posts By Date [Select Month  ]

Posts By Subject

apologetics apostasy Atheism autobiographical Bible BoM series Book of Mormon
BYU Catholicism Christianity Christopher Hitchens club info criticism of
atheists debate education events evolution film free speech gay rights gender
equality General Conference Glenn Beck homosexuality Humor Islam Joseph Smith
LDS Church link bomb morality mormon news Philosophy politics Prop 8 racism
religion Science secular humanism secularism skepticism terrorism Utah website
why I don't believe

 

 

Atheism

  • About.com – Agnosticism/Atheism
  • American Atheists
  • Atheism: Proving the Negative
  • Atheist Media
  • Atheists of Utah
  • Center for Inquiry
  • Common Sense Atheism
  • Dwindling in Unbelief
  • Freedom From Religion Foundation
  • Friendly Atheist
  • Greta Christina's Blog
  • Pharyngula
  • Point of Inquiry
  • Richard Dawkins
  • Salt City Skeptics
  • Skeptic's Annotated Bible
  • The Secular Web
  • University of Utah SHIFT
  • Unreasonable Faith

Christianity

  • Debunking Christianity
  • Evangelist Eli Brayley's Site
  • First Things
  • Reasonable Faith

Humor

  • Mr. Deity
  • My Religious Blog
  • The Onion

Mormonism

  • Dialogue
  • FAIR LDS
  • Irresistible (Dis)Grace
  • LDS Origins
  • LDS Reason and Revelation
  • Main Street Plaza
  • Mormon Stories
  • Mormon Think
  • Post Mormon
  • Provo Vanguard
  • Pure Mormonism
  • Rethinking Mormonism
  • Richard Packham's Blog
  • Sunstone
  • The Mormon Curtain

Other

  • Natural Philosophy of Life
  • Snopes
  • USU Religious Studies
  • Utah State University
  • You Are Not So Smart

Philosophy

  • Prof. Huenemann's blog
  • Prof. Kleiner's blog
  • Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
  • The Philosopher's Magazine
  • USU Philosophy

Science

  • Scientific American
  • Skeptic
  • TED Talks
  • The Skeptic's Dictionary

Mr. Winters Needs to do Some Research

In a recent opinion column in the USU Statesman Richard Winters showed us what
happens when uneducated religious bias tries to write a column called Common
Sense. I would like to walk through this column piece by piece.

It starts off with this 

    Amidst the fantastic coverage of news and sports published in The Utah
    Statesman, there has always come shockingly to my attention certain opinion
    columns which have promoted promiscuity, homosexuality, premarital sex, the
    viewing of pornography and a general disdain for anything virtuous or
    wholesome in society.

For anyone familiar with the Statesman this is clearly in reference to the many
columns done by Liz Emery (Liz has also done a rebuttal to this column and it
can be found here )

    Can you imagine if the norm was to openly view pornography?

Viewing porn seems to be the normal thing in Utah and for conservatives.
 Blaming the increase in porn consumption on Atheist seems to be against the
evidence. Mr. Winters needs to do a little more research on this before he
writes on it.

    Do you have any idea the rate of sexual crimes and deviances that begin
    with pornography? Sometime when you have a spare half hour, why don’t you
    Youtube “Ted Bundy last interview” and see what pornography did to inspire
    this particular serial killer of more than 30 women including a little girl
    from Utah.

Really? Really?!?!? I guess its a just a matter of time before I go crazy and
kill everyone. . . Or until the 15,504* of Utah porn consumers turn into crazy
mass killers. There is absolutely no evidence that pornography increases crime,
in fact there has been a decrease in rape and sexual assault as porn usage have
go up.  

    What about another issue previously discussed in this very newspaper —
    premarital sex and promiscuity? This is increasingly becoming the norm in
    our society.

Okay I’ll give you that sex is becoming more acceptable in society. Mr. Winters
even went on to give a generic example of a superhero having sex with a girl he
just meet. Okay Mr. Winters still with you.

    What’s incredible to me is that women in our world will fight tooth and
    nail for feminist movements and “women’s rights,” particularly to “their
    own bodies,” but they aren’t disgusted and mortified by the fact that those
    same bodies are increasingly treated like playthings on the big screen. And
    yes, we as a world are accepting it more and more.

Wow. You seem to have no understanding on the feminist movement, which has been
outraged over this very thing for years. But what angers me more, Mr. Winters
is the use of quotes around “women’s rights” and  “their own bodies.” Does Mr.
Winters believe that women’s rights don’t exist? That they don’t have the right
to their own bodies. Your sexism is clear here Mr. Winters

    Another idea which we heard from a previous author’s column platform is
    that we should embrace homosexuality.

If by embrace you mean give equal rights, then yes.

    Can you imagine if homosexuality were the norm? We would die out as a race
    in a single generation.

Wait when did supporting the LGBTQ community mean that we all have to be gay?
Oh but it gets worse.

    Interestingly enough, if you track the rise and fall of Rome, Pompeii or
    any other major civilization in history, sexual promiscuity and
    homosexuality do become the norm right before they destroy themselves.

Apparently I have been misinformed about history my whole life * sarcasm*!
Pompeii didn’t have a raging gay problem they had a raging lava problem;
Rome didn’t have a sexual promiscuity problem they had a Gaul and Christian
problem.

Mr. Winters goes on to say we need to “start using some common sense” something
he doesn’t have.

Richard, or should I call you Dick, you need to do some research before you
open your mouth and spew hate and ignorance.

* Number was found by taking the Population of Utah multiplying by the 5.43/
1000 (The ratio of Utahans who subscribe to porn)

[Edit for 18:49 2/7/2012 for Typo]

Posted on February 7, 2013February 7, 2013Author Nathan ButtonCategories 
Uncategorized5 Comments on Mr. Winters Needs to do Some Research

The Origins of the Earth and Moon w/ Professor Carol

What

Professor Carol of the geology department will be joining us to talk about the
formation of early earth and our moon. Please bring any questions you have as
well as friends. This will be out last speaker of the semester and we’re hoping
to get as large a turnout as possible.

When

Wednesday, November 28, 2012. 6:30pm

Where

Merril-Cazier Library, Room 302

 

Get more info and stay in the lop at http://www.facebook.com/events/
245537212242711/

Posted on November 10, 2012November 23, 2012Author Nathan ButtonCategories 
Events, FeaturedLeave a comment on The Origins of the Earth and Moon w/
Professor Carol

Big Bang Theory Discussion With Dr. David Peak

What: Big bang theory discussion with Dr. David Peak

When: Wednesday October 24, 2012 6:30pm

Where: Merrill-Cazier Library, Room 302

Come space out with USU REASON! Dr. David Peak of the physics department will
be joining us to discuss the Big Bang Theory and its implications. The event is
open to whoever you’d like to invite as we’d like to get as big of a turnout as
possible. Hope to see you there!

Posted on October 15, 2012Author Nathan ButtonCategories Events, FeaturedLeave
a comment on Big Bang Theory Discussion With Dr. David Peak

Why You Should Vote; Even if you live in Utah

So right off the bat i’m going to give a disclaimer. I am a highly political
person, and a political junky. I will try to keep my political preferences out
of this except for a few exceptions at the very end, namely gay marriage and
abortion. I do not expect everyone to agree with me, and i respect that you
have your opinions, as long as you have factual source for your basises; You
are more than welcome to them. But the moment you use the bible as a source I
will laugh at you and call you a bigot, though I won’t censor you. I encourage
debating at all times and as long as its kept respectful and does not result to
personal attacks I will let you say about anything. Any questions? Good! lets
begin

When people find out that I plan to vote for Gary Johnson in the upcoming
presidential election I get one of two responses. The first “Who in science
name is Jerry Johnson?” and yes 75% of the time they do mess up his name. The
second is “Why are you wasting your vote?”. Now as much as I would love to talk
about the man who is Gary Johnson, i’m going to focus on the last one –
although at the end I will explain a little bit about who Gary is and why I
support him.

So why am I “wasting” my vote on Gary? Simple, I could not say it any better
than Gary himself. “If you all waste your vote on me, I will be the next
president.” Now I hold no illusions that Gary has a long long long way to go if
he is going to be president but I wouldn’t feel right about supporting a
candidate who doesn’t represent my values, and neither should you.

I know several Democrats and Liberals in Utah who won’t vote, because “It won’t
matter.” Wrong! 34% of Utahns voted for Obama in 2008; What if that jumped to
36%? The GOP would shit themselves that a Mormon candidate got fewer votes in a
mormon state than their previous candidate! Also this bump in Democratic
turnout would make sure that the Democratic party paid more attention to Utah,
hell you think that the reddest state in the nation sending a Democrat
congressmen to Washington year after year would have already did that.

And if Democrats think they have it bad look at us Libertarians. 0.7% of Utahns
voted for our candidate in 2008! Yet we still try every year. “Why?” you may
ask. Because we wouldn’t feel right about voting for someone who doesn’t
support our values. For us voting for the lesser of two evils is not an option,
if I didn’t agree with 90% of Gary’s platform I wouldn’t vote for him. Not
voting because “Romney is going to win” is the same as saying “I’m going to let
Romney win”. And that is the key issue, if your don’t get out and vote for what
you believe in, then you’re saying that you don’t care if the challenger wins.
So no matter who you support get out and vote; no matter how unlikely it is
that your candidate will win, show the challenger that you don’t want him.

Now as promised here is why I support Gary Johnson, former Governor of New
Mexico, for president.

Johnson has taken a stance on Gay Marriage, and I agree with him. Your right to
happiness is guarded by the constitution, and if for you to be happy you need
to marry someone of the same sex, then go right ahead. The Government should
have no say in what legal agreement (because that’s really all marriage is) two
consenting adult enter into.

Abortion is something that I don’t like, but also something that I believe to
be a personal choice, Gary takes a similar stance. He believes that women have
a right to chose what happens to their body. I PERSONALLY believe that the
number one cause of abortion is religious intolerance or frowning appone birth
control.

Gary is a fiscal conservative. Hell his budget makes Ryan’s extreme budget cuts
look bloated with spending. Do I believe that congress would go with Gary’s
budget? Not fraken likely! But that doesn’t mean its a bad idea.

Gary was the New Mexico Governor in the late 1990’s he was a republican who was
elected in a state 2-1 democrat. Why? Because he made sense.

Oh and he is the only candidate calling an end to marijuana prohibition – and
had been doing so since in the 1990’s.

So go vote! Seriously do it, because the religious nut jobs are coming out of
the woodwork and really want to turn us into a christian theocracy. ( I may
have got those links backwards, but they really say the same thing which is
“These Masticating sons of women are bat crap insane!”)

Posted on October 10, 2012Author Nathan ButtonCategories Uncategorized4
Comments on Why You Should Vote; Even if you live in Utah

The Last Question

I love to read; history, fantasy, novels, or scientific journals it does not
matter but I have always especially loved short stories. Today  I read a short
story by Isaac Asimov called The Last Question (go read it so that your know
where this post is coming from). I know we have had the simulated reality
 discussion , but what about god was created by an earlier
advanced intelligent race discussion? Maybe even a race of beings not even from
our own universal-timeline (honestly I can think of no better way to explain
that). Asimov story is interesting in that as a computer scientist  I can see
us building a computer so advanced that it would answer all question. Some have
come to call this point the singularity. I am curious to hear of others
thoughts on this. Could we be the results of a super-advanced race from a
different universal-timeline super-advanced computer restarting their dead
universe, or one day will we create the god of a new universe with our super
computers?

Posted on August 18, 2012Author Nathan ButtonCategories Uncategorized9 Comments
on The Last Question

My Sunstone talk

Good morning, everyone. My name is Jon Adams, and I’m thrilled to have this
opportunity to discuss with you two passions of mine: Mormonism and the
internet. While I am a student of both subjects, I must confess that I am an
expert in neither. There are people at this conference who are better
acquainted than I with the various ex-Mormon communities that exist online, and
I’m honored to share the stage with many of them.

In preparing for this panel, I struggled to think of what novel sociological
insights I could contribute. I wanted this talk to have all the academic
trappings of a typical Sunstone talk. But again, I’m no expert, and ultimately
I only feel comfortable talking about that which I know best: my story. And I
think that’s especially appropriate given that our topic concerns ex-Mormons
and their personal narratives.

I’ll begin by sharing why I left the LDS Church, and then briefly explain how I
became involved with the ex-Mormon “blogosphere”.

For much of my formative teenage years, I considered myself a devout Mormon.
Having been born and raised in a faithful Mormon family, I read my scriptures,
said my prayers daily, went to church, and anxiously awaited serving an LDS
mission. I was a bonafide paragon of piety.

Today, I identify as an agnostic atheist and secular humanist. But the
transition from belief to disbelief did not happen overnight; it was the
gradual culmination of several factors. The seeds of my doubt were sown as
early as sophomore year of high school, when I joined the debate team.

Debate taught me to analyze ideas with a critical eye. And when that eye was
trained inward on my faith, I discovered some disconcerting facts about both
church history and doctrine. Initially, I attempted to use my debate skills in
the service of Mormon apologetics. I wanted to defend my faith against
anti-Mormon lies. So I took to the internet, which was then emerging as the
front-line in the debate about Mormonism.

My testimony, sincere though it was, did not prepare me for what I would
discover. I stumbled upon a site that featured a list of racist quotes from LDS
Church leaders. Confident that the quotes were fabrications or taken out of
context, I decided to go straight to the original sources. I noticed that a
number of the more embarrassing quotes came from a book my family happened to
own. That book was Bruce R. McConkie’s Mormon Doctrine.

For those familiar with the book, you’ll no doubt understand why my reading it
proved problematic. As I thumbed through Mormon Doctrine, I came across a
section entitled “Negroes.” In it, McConkie asserted that blacks were a cursed
race who were spiritually inferior due to their actions in the premortal
existence. He also argued that racial segregation in marriage and other
institutions was divinely ordained.

The significance of what I read was not that it disproved Mormonism. McConkie,
after all, wasn’t writing in any official capacity for the church. Rather, its
significance was in showing me that not everything critical of Mormonism was
false.

To be sure, the internet is replete with nonsense about Mormonism. And looking
back at some old things I’ve written, I was sometimes unwittingly a purveyor of
that nonsense myself. But I was quicker to forgive the critics for their
falsehoods than I was to forgive Mormonism for its falsehoods because I held
the latter to a higher standard. The critics didn’t have to be right 100% of
the time, but the church did.

The further I researched the LDS Church, the more disillusioned I became. I
learned that the Book of Mormon had little to no archeological evidence, that
the Book of Abraham was not a literal translation of ancient Egyptian papyri,
that as a young man Joseph Smith was intimately involved in magic and
treasure-digging, and that he secretly married dozens of women, a third of whom
already had husbands.

I know this is the cliched litany of reasons people recite when sharing their
deconversion story, but at the time these facts were revelatory and
faith-shattering to me. The church—at least how I understood it—appeared to be
a lie.

When people lose something they love, they tend to respond either with sadness
or anger. I loved Mormonism, and when I lost my testimony, I was admittedly a
bit angry. My emotions were tame relative to others, but I don’t blame those
who experience a more visceral anger; they often have legitimate grievances. I
mean, who wouldn’t be upset to learn that the church for which you’ve
sacrificed so much—in time, money, and freedom—wasn’t true?

The bulk of my anger, however, wasn’t directed at the church. Perhaps more than
anything, I was disappointed with myself for having believed in it. So I didn’t
just lose faith in the church, I lost faith in myself. And that for me was
equally painful.

The “angry apostate” stereotype does reflect an actual phenomenon, but the vast
majority of those who disaffect do so quietly and unceremoniously. Just look at
the widespread inactivity of members across Latin America. They don’t broadcast
their disbelief online or at symposia like Sunstone. You see, many of us belong
to a vocal minority of apostates.

Mormons tolerate private doubts, but not public criticism. A lot of Mormons can
sympathize with having questions, but they don’t understand why some are almost
evangelical in their disbelief. “They can leave the church, but they can’t
leave it alone,” goes the popular aphorism.

For one, it’d be easier to leave the church alone were it to leave us alone.
Mormonism in Utah is virtually omnipresent—its influence extends to every facet
of society here, from the home to the government. Even little things like the
occasional impulse to bless the food before a meal can remind you of your
former faith. Other manifestations of the church’s influence are less benign,
however.

Another reason why some ex-Mormons speak out is to preempt and rebut
misconceptions about why they left. It’s often assumed by the faithful that
people leave the church because they were offended by something petty, wanted
to lead a life of sin, or are in the employ of Satan. I didn’t want those
things said of me because they weren’t true, so I made a conscious effort to
convince my friends and family that I had logical reasons for leaving. My goal
wasn’t to disabuse them of their faith so much as it was to earn their respect
and understanding.

But I think a more positive account can be made for why ex-Mormons like myself
are so vocal. I view criticism not as a sign of hate, but respect. Secular
philosopher Austin Dacey said, “The way you respect a person is not by agreeing
with everything he or she says, but by holding that person to the same
intellectual/moral standards to which you hold yourself. Anything less is not
respect, it’s indifference. So sometimes in order to respect religion’s
peoples, we must critique people’s religions.” That’s why I object to the
casual labeling of anyone who criticizes the church as “anti-Mormon”.

Being evangelical about one’s beliefs is actually a value I inherited from
Mormonism. Countless Mormons spend two years of their lives proselytizing. And
why? It’s not because they hate other religions, but because they sincerely
want to share with people “the good news.” The truth is a gift; it would be
selfish to keep it to oneself. Likewise, I don’t try to dissuade people from
Mormonism in order to win debates or provoke a “spirit of contention”. As a
matter of principle, I simply believe that people deserve the truth.

Church leaders frequently warn members that doubt leads to unhappiness. On
balance, that hasn’t been my experience. I’m happy, and I’m living a more
authentic life than I was as a gay Mormon. But let there be no mistake: Leaving
the LDS Church can be a terribly painful ordeal—one that jeopardizes
relationships and uproots your existential anchors. Yet there is something
liberating about the truth, about seeing the world as it really is.

I can’t promise that everyone will find my philosophy as life-affirming as I
do, but people ought to be exposed to different perspectives so that they can
make informed choices.

This is why in 2008 I co-founded a secular student club at Utah State
University named SHAFT, which stood for “Secular Humanists, Atheists and Free
Thinkers”. It was first club of its kind in Utah. Unsurprisingly, the majority
of club members were ex-Mormons, and on a predominantly LDS campus, SHAFT
served an important social function. The same is true for a lot of online
ex-Mormon communities.

But I had different aspirations for SHAFT. I didn’t need a support group of
like-minded individuals. As a debater in high school and now as a debate coach,
I’ve always enjoyed the company of those with whom is disagree. My hope for
SHAFT was that it would inspire intelligent and civil discussions about
religion, science, and philosophy.

To that end, I helped launch the SHAFT blog. Since 2009, I have written over
300 posts and the blog has won many awards including “Best New Blog” by Main
Street Plaza. I think that as an online forum where Mormonism and other issues
are debated, it has largely succeeded.

If you visit the SHAFT blog today at usureason.com, you’ll notice a dearth of
recent activity. My previously prolific self could produce nearly a post a day.
Contrast that with this year: In all of 2012, I’ve managed to write just one
solitary post!

This fact is bittersweet. On the one hand, it belies the claim that ex-Mormons
can’t leave the church alone. That I can go months without giving serious
attention to Mormonism signals to me something rather healthy: I no longer live
in the church’s shadow. But on the other hand, I miss Mormonism. I miss being
in company like yours discussing topics like this. In short, I’m not quite
ready to be “post-Mormon”. To totally divorce myself from Mormonism would be
like amputating an arm—I could probably live without it, but I don’t want to.

My friend Andrew of the blog Irresistible Disgrace put it this way: “I am
avoiding a possible future where I am completely severed from or am “beyond”
Mormonism, because I feel like if I ever reach that point, then I become
someone with no history …”

I’m flattered that despite my hiatus from the ex-Mormon blogosphere I was still
invited to participate on this panel today. I hope that this experience not
only rekindles my interest in Mormonism, but also helps me reclaim a part of
myself I feared I was losing.

I’m grateful to all of you for giving up your Saturday morning to be here with
us, and I look forward to your questions!

Thank you.

Posted on July 28, 2012July 29, 2012Author Jon AdamsCategories Uncategorized
Tags apostasy, Sunstone, talk4 Comments on My Sunstone talk

Dealing with Death for Nonbelievers

This was original writen by Liz Emery, and with her permison I am posting it
here. Today one of my friends, a fellow soldier committed suicide. War brings
people close, in someways closer than family. I would have happily given my
life to save his, and its hard to deal with the fact that I should have seen
the signs. Being an atheist its hard for me to be comforted in losing someone
so close But life goes on, as I now search for ways to comfort his family and
my others brothers and sisters in arms. I can only look to the future and help
keep others from making the same mistake.

Dealing with Death for Nonbelievers
By Liz Emery

When I was sixteen, a very good friend’s young mother was diagnosed with an
aggressive form of lung cancer and died four months later. This was the first
time I really had to confront the idea of death—until that point, dying had
been something that happened to unlucky pets, great grandparents, and strangers
on the news. At the time, my religion was a great source of comfort for me and
gave me the answers I needed to justify a tragedy that was otherwise
unjustifiable.

Just a few weeks ago, another good friend’s even younger mother was diagnosed
with the same disease. This time, neither I nor my friend have a religion to
buffer the ugly reality of death. This drove me to ask the question: How do you
comfort a nonbeliever who’s grieving?

Although everyone deals with loss in their own way, there are some guidelines
to remember and respect when you’re comforting someone you love who does not
believe in an afterlife.

The most important is that, even though a religious worldview may bring you
consolation, it can come off as arrogant and insulting. This may sound strange,
but if you’re religious, imagine a nonbeliever trying to comfort you by saying,
“I know you’ll never see them again.” You’d feel awful, right? The same idea
works conversely by saying, “I know you’ll see them again,” to a nonbelieving
person.

A woman named Torrie shared with me her reaction when her brother committed
suicide and a congregation member trying to comfort her told her, “He is not in
a happy place right now. He is still suffering.”

“I wanted to slap the woman,” Torrie told me, even though she knew the woman
meant well. “But you know what? I didn’t, because I knew my brother was dead.
He was gone. And he wasn’t sad; he wasn’t happy. He wasn’t in a better place;
he wasn’t in a worse place. The matter that made my brother was no longer
functioning in the form that I knew as Dave.” Continue reading Dealing with
Death for Nonbelievers

Posted on April 30, 2012July 5, 2012Author Nathan ButtonCategories 
UncategorizedLeave a comment on Dealing with Death for Nonbelievers

There Are No Atheists in Fox-holes

“There are no atheists in fox-holes,” it is a phrase I have heard throughout my
basic training, my AIT (advanced individual training), and from the handful of
chaplains I have been required to talk to. During my basic training I had to
fill out a survey that went to the chaplains’ office. Most of the questions on
this survey had to do with our mental and physical well-being, as suicide rates
in the military are higher than the rest of the nation. I answered every
question truthfully, I am use to being away from family, and I never had an
issue, or thoughts of suicide while at basic. The last question on the survey
asked for your religious affiliation, we were told that the reason for this
question was to get numbers for setting up religious services. I knew that
there was a stigma to being an atheist in the Army so my first instinct was to
mark LDS for this question, but my Army values training – that we had spent the
morning drilling – took over. I thought to myself “a soldier has Integrity, not
only to his unit and his command, but to himself.” If I marked LDS on the
survey I would be lying to the chaplain, and not being true to myself. I marked
atheist on the survey. In my mind the issue was settled, over the next few
weeks I embraced my atheism and “came out”, while some of the other soldiers
were supportive, or at least indifferent,  most came back with the “there are
no atheist in fox-holes” line.

About two weeks after filling out this survey, my Drill Sergeant came into the
bay and called for me. I responded with the “Drill Sergeant moving Drill
Sergeant!” that is programmed into you from day one, and ran to my Drill
Sergeants Office trying to imagine what I had done to warrant this. Going to
the Drill Sergeant’s office was normally a sign of pain and suffering to come.
After knocking on his door and identifying myself I was told to enter. In the
office there was my Drill Sergeant and the Chaplain. My Drill Sergeant quickly
told me that the Chaplain wanted to speak to me, and then stepped out of the
office.  Now I don’t remember the conversation word for word – I was running on
4 hours of sleep a night for the past 4 weeks and was in one of the most
stressful situations someone could be in- but it went something like this.

    Chaplain: “I understand from your survey that you’re an Atheist.”

    Me: “Yes sir.” (The Chaplain, being a Major, got the title sir.)

    Chaplain: “Well Private, I’m worried about you. Without a strong religious
    faith to support you through basic, I fear for your safety.”

After this I was starting to see what was going on. This Chaplain believed that
me not being religious made it more likely that I would commit suicide. I will
admit, it made me angry that I would be singled out for my beliefs, or lack of
beliefs, in a nation that was based on secularism and freedom of religion (in
this case lack of religion). It felt like a betrayal of what I had sworn to
fight and protect. I had sworn to protect the constitution of the United States
of America, and this Chaplain was spitting in the face of the most important
document of this country. With my anger boiling I bit my tongue and replied.

    Me: “You don’t need to worry about me Sir. You may need to worry about the
    Catholic kid in the bunk next to me. He cries for his mom every night.”

As a lowly just-in-the-service private, a major was a scary person to talk to.
I “remember” saying this next part, but I find it hard that I would, so whether
or not I actually did say the following is unknown to me. Nevertheless these
were, and still are, my feelings and I would like to say that I did in fact
present them to the Chaplain.

    Me: “As an atheist, I only have one life to live. If I die thats it! There
    is no resurrection, no halls of Valhalla, no seventy virgins, no
    reincarnation. when I die I die, why would I want to commit suicide? It
    makes no sense.”

After our conversation the Chaplain asked if I would like a blessing, which I
declined. I have  been to multiple Chaplains since then – it’s required for
different things like deployments etc.- and while none have been as upfront as
the first with their dislike in my lack of faith, they have all shown alarm and
concern over it.

So how does this tie into the phrase “there are no atheist in fox-holes”? I’ve
been to war. Now I may not have had people shooting directly at me but; I had
mortar and rocket attacks almost daily; I drove one of the most deadly routes
in Iraq (route Irish) 4 times a day as a gunner; I drove the 300+ miles from
Baghdad Iraq to Ali-al-salem Kuwait. I had tense moments, moments when I was
scared, but never once did I thank “God”, or ask for protection from a “higher
power”, unless you consider my chain of command a “higher power”. To me “God”
was the men and women who operated the CRAM (counter Rocket Artillery and
Mortar), the soldiers who manned the towers and checkpoints, the route
clearance teams whose sole job was to blow up IEDs (Improvised Explosive
Devices) by driving over them before I did,  the inventors and scientists who
developed my body armor, and the engineers who created the MRAP (Mine Resistant
Ambush Protected) vehicle that I drove down the road. These were the people
keeping me alive, these were the people who deserve my thanks, not some “God”.

Too many people thank God when something good happens,when a medical treatment
works, when a car’s airbags deploy to save their life, or even just when the
airplane they were in lands safely. But the real thanks should go to the men
and women who developed the technology, who went to school to learn about their
fields, who sacrificed their time and energy to make us safe. Too often people
forget about thanking these people. The idea of thanking “God” for what these
people do never crosses my mind.

I was an Atheist in a fox-hole. I don’t owe thanks to “God” for my survival, I
owe thanks to the men and women who came before me, and who developed the
technology that kept me safe, and most importantly to the Soldiers who risked
their life beside mine everyday. These were my “Gods” my “higher power”, the
achievements of the human mind and the strength of my brother and sisters in
arms.

Posted on April 25, 2012April 27, 2012Author Nathan ButtonCategories 
UncategorizedTags Atheist, Fox-holes, Military5 Comments on There Are No
Atheists in Fox-holes

Posts navigation

Page 1 Page 2 … Page 52 Next page
Proudly powered by WordPress
