Into the Pagan Heart of Trillanie

Thursday, January 7, 2016

Fooling 'Professional' Psychics - Derren Brown



In Messiah, Derren travels around America and showcases his abilities to cast
doubt on pre-existing, dubious belief systems under the guise of a fake name
and identity. First stop - remote viewing in Sedona.


Posted by PT at 1/07/2016 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: beliefs, debunking, Derren Brown, psychics

Saturday, January 2, 2016

What is Moral Decay?

[moralcompass]


This is a topic that comes up frequently among Christians and in general older
men who watch Fox News. If you asked one of my family members when moral decay
happened it occurred in the 60's with women burning their bras, abortion
becoming legal, and free love. So basically women are the cause of moral decay
at least according to him. Whether he recognized it or not, it was a sexist
viewpoint.

But instead of decay, one might refer to this as a transformation of morality.
For if there were moral absolutes they would be unchanging. Morality is always
a subjective preference either of the individual or the individual who takes on
a societal viewpoint, there is no objective morality to be found outside of the
human mind, and morality always involves created concepts around what is
purportedly seen as right, wrong, good, or bad, but all of these are completely
subjective. Witness the differences of morality through out various societies
through out time, none are constants.

Parents should pay particular attention to their views because their views help
to shape who their children become. Which is why I am a Satanist today.

Authored by
Pagan & Alannah


Posted by PT at 1/02/2016 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: moral decay, morality, morals, values

Thursday, December 31, 2015

Goodbye 2015

[new]

Well, I am thankful 2015 is almost over. It's really been one thing after
another. With multiple surgeries and general chaos happening. The attacks and
mayhem happening all over the globe. 

The one thing in my life that remains constant is my relationship with my
partner, Alannah. She's really the best thing that has happened to me and I
don't know where I'd be without her. We'll be celebrating four years together
this January. 

To my friends who have supported me through thick n' thin. Your friendship
means a lot to me. Thanks for being a part of our lives.

To my partner, my friends, and readers of this blog I wish you a very Happy New
Year. May 2016 be a better one for all. 

~Love, Pagan


Posted by PT at 12/31/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: 2016, new year

Sunday, December 20, 2015

Season's Greetings


[holiday]

Wishing you a very Happy Holiday and Merry Christmas to all our friends near,
far, and from around the world. May the New Year grant you clear vision and a
joyous heart.♡
Posted by PT at 12/20/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Christmas, holidays, Seasons Greetings, Xmas

Thursday, December 3, 2015

The Satanic Statements Explained

[symbol]


1. Satan represents indulgence, instead of abstinence.
Nothing is to be gained by denying oneself pleasure. Religious calls for
abstinence most often come from faiths that view the physical world and its
pleasures as spiritually dangerous. Satanism is a world-affirming, not
world-denying, religion. However, the encouragement of indulgence does not
equate mindless submersion into pleasures. Sometimes refrain leads to
heightened enjoyment later, in which case patience and discipline are
encouraged. Finally, indulgence requires one to always be in control. If
satisfying a desire becomes a compulsion (such as an addiction), then control
has been surrendered to the object of desire, which is never encouraged.

2. Satan represents vital existence, instead of spiritual pipe dreams.
Reality and existence is sacred, and the truth of that existence is to be
honored and sought at all times, never to be sacrificed for a comforting lie or
an unverified claim one cannot bother to investigate.

3. Satan represents undefiled wisdom, instead of hypocritical self-deceit.
True knowledge takes work and strength. It is something one finds rather than
what will be handed to you. Doubt everything and avoid dogma. Truth tells of
how the world truly is, not of how we would like it to be. Be wary of shallow
emotional wants, for they frequently can only be satisfied at the expense of
truth.

4. Satan represents kindness to those who deserve it, not love wasted on
ingrates.
There is nothing in Satanism that encourages wanton cruelty or unkindness.
There is nothing productive in that, but it is also unproductive to waste your
energy on people who will not appreciate or reciprocate it. Treating others as
they treat you will form meaningful and productive bonds while letting
parasites know that you will not waste your time with them.

5. Satan represents vengeance, instead of turning the other cheek.
Leaving wrongs unpunished merely encourages miscreants to continue preying on
both yourself and others, and those who do not stand up for themselves end up
being trampled. This is not, however, an encouragement for misbehavior.
Becoming a bully in the name of vengeance is not only dishonest but it also
invites others to bring vengeance upon yourself. The same goes for illegal
actions of retribution: break the law and you become the miscreant that the law
should come down on swiftly and harshly.

6. Satan represents responsibility to the responsible, instead of concern for
psychic vampires.
Real leaders are determined by their actions and accomplishments, not their
titles, and real power and responsibility should be given to those who can
wield it, not to those who simply demand it.

7. Satan represents man as just another animal.
Satan represents man as just another animal, sometimes better, more often worse
than those that walk on all-fours, who, because of his “divine spiritual and
intellectual development,” has become the most vicious animal of all! Elevating
the human species as somehow innately superior to other animals is blatant
self-deceit. Humanity is driven by the same natural urges that other animals
experience. While our intellect has allowed us to accomplish truly great things
(which should be appreciated), it can also be credited with incredible and
wanton acts of cruelty throughout history.

8. Satan represents all of the so-called sins, as they all lead to physical,
mental, or emotional gratification.
In general, the concept of “sin” is something that breaks a moral or religious
law, and Satanism is strictly against such following of dogma. When a Satanist
avoids an action, it is because of concrete reasons, not simply because dogma
dictates it or someone has judged it “bad”. In addition, when a Satanists
realizes that he or she has committed an actual wrong, the correct response is
to accept it, learn from it, and not do it again, rather than mentally beat
himself or herself up for it or begging for forgiveness.

9. Satan has been the best friend the church has ever had, as he has kept it in
business all these years.
This last statement is largely a declaration against dogmatic and fear-based
religion. If there were no temptations, if we did not have the natures that we
do, if there was nothing to fear, then few people would submit themselves to
the rules and abuses that have developed in other religions (specifically
Christianity) over the centuries.

Sources: Anton Szandor LaVey
The Left Hand Path via Facebook
Posted by PT at 12/03/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: LaVeyan Satanism, Left Hand Path, Satanic Statements

Sunday, November 29, 2015

Christmas: Behind the Curtain


[wreath]

Is Jesus the reason for the season? Seth Andrews takes a look at the origins of
the Christmas holiday in this 14-minute special produced for AtheistTV (http://
atheists.org/atheisttv)



And just in case you were wondering...Atheists really don't care whether you
say "Merry Christmas", but the Christians do!  ;-)



Posted by PT at 11/29/2015 2 comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: atheist, Christmas: Behind the Curtain, Jesus, Seth Andrews, video

Monday, November 23, 2015

A Little Spin Off Fun We Had


[Church]

Originally this photo above came from Hemant Mehta's blog via a reader named
Everett who passed it along. We decided to have a little fun with this one
earlier on my facebook page. Well, it as after all the holiday. Normally we're
pretty serious about what we write. But not today. :-)


[recruitment-dominatrix]

Who needs Mr Grey. :-)

[original]

Here comes Elsa.

[large]

You will lick my boot and love it.

[5704700267_1a3ed416a3_z]

Love knows no boundaries. 


 Enjoy your Thanksgiving holiday and don't forget to bring your cat o' nine's
for later.
Doll photos via tumblr.


Posted by PT at 11/23/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: bdsm, humor, joy

Saturday, October 31, 2015

McFarlane Toys: The Walking Dead Michonne 10 Inch Action Figure Review

[8a]

This week I am reviewing The Walking Dead ten inch action figure, Michonne,
which I purchased through Entertainment Earth. My go to site for many of my
collectibles. The character of Michonne is played by the lovely Danai Gurira.

[1a]


Pictured here in her box. She comes with a stand, an extra set of arms, her
sword, and sheath.

[2a]

A view of the back of the box. Showing figures such as Morgan with impaled
walker and others available in the latest series of collectible toys.

[3a]

Michonne in her pose directly from the box. Minus her sheath. There is a hole
on the heel of her boot for the stand. The peg doesn't go all the way into the
boot, but you don't need to worry. Her boots have a little give in them to pose
her correctly.

[4a]

From this view you can see the detail of her outfit that she wears. Nicely done
and painted.

[5a]

Side view showing the detail of her hair, headband, and just look at how
wonderfully done her face is with that expression there. Every bit the warrior.

[6a]

From this angle getting a good look at her muddied boot and the stand that
comes with her.

[7a]

This view from the back showing her sword which will take you a little time
inserting into her hands when you change out the alternate arms.

[9a]

This is my favorite pose of the two because you see more of her face using the
alternate arms. I've added the sheath here which you'll need to put on first
before you lock the arm into place. The arms were fairly easily to remove with
a little effort. The hardest part I think was removing the katana from her
hands to change the arms out. But it's a matter of working it back n forth. In
some of my past reviews I wasn't able to pop off some of the pieces because
they were too tight. But if you keep working them slowly they eventually do
come off.

She retails for $32.99 plus shipping. The look for Michonne was inspired from
the season three of AMC's The Walking Dead. For ages 12 and up.

My previous reviews include both the 10 inch Rick and Daryl from McFarlane Toys
. If you haven't read them do check them out. Thanks for stopping by and enjoy!

Posted by PT at 10/31/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: #iCollectatEE, McFarlane Toys, Michonne 10 inch Action Figure, The
Walking Dead

Thursday, October 29, 2015

The Problems With Those "All Paths" Sites


[carl-sagan]


Chances are if you've been around new age communities that cater to all paths,
all people, the be authentic, be you sites what that really means is their
brand of people and paths. What do I mean by that, you ask? More often than not
it means as an atheist you can't be yourself at all. Because your "path" if you
want to call it that conflicts with the views of the host and admins of that
particular site. They more or less want you to be of the same train of thought
as they are. You can't speak your truth, you can't be critical of others views,
they don't like science (well not the peer-reviewed variety, but if it's
pseudo-science, no problems), and they want you to respect their beliefs. In
other words that be authentic, be you stuff is nonsense. In fact, as my partner
states, "they are fucking hypocrites despite the positive emotional
philosophies they adhere to."

I am reminded of a quote I had on my profile page that read "I am not from your
tribe." Meaning I am among you, but I am not one of you. I'm not here to fit
neatly inside your personal group of thought.

There is a pattern of overly-sweet and passive aggressiveness that pervades
these fluff bunny sites. They welcome you into their bosoms and if you deviate
from their ideas into reason and rationality, much like religion, they will
make it hard for you to maintain being a member there.

Examples of what happened to me and my partner at one particular site called
Temple Illuminatus were one staff member sneaking in the middle of the night
abusing their power within our small group. As well the host was very hostile
when I would post articles or videos on atheism and threatening to ban me. The
final episode was yet another staff member removed us as admins from our group,
took it over, and then a day later deleted our less than ten member group. Too
many administrative shenanigans going on and quite the witch hunt I would say.

Albeit the time we spent on this website and in between me and my partner
individually on others, we feel we both learned a lot. From our perspective,
sometimes it is best and strengthens one's solitudinous stance as an individual
and increases one's intellectual processes to have had these type of
experiences. Sometimes it's best not to get too comfortable on such sites
whereas becoming a regular and too secure in one's position can lead to a
dulling of one's individuality by a slow process of immersing one's self into
specified little groups. Also without recognizing as such, almost becoming a
part of their herd.

Authors:
Pagan and Alannah
Posted by PT at 10/29/2015 2 comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: atheism, critical thinking, new age, skepticism, temple illuminatus

Sunday, October 18, 2015

Human Attraction


[HannibalWill]

What is it that attracts you to someone? 
What is it that has attracted you to us and brought you here? 

[cathyhealthcliffe]

What does your intuition tell you about him or her? 
What was it that aroused you?  

[flourish]

Or did it develop over time?


Perhaps you are attracted to what is most familiar to you. Because you find a
measure of safety in those particular aspects of their behaviors, both good and
bad. One should become aware of certain patterns of the mind. The very things
that often attract us to other humans.

There are countless articles written on the topic that offer a maze of
opinions. Some are worth the chuckle. While others are more scientific.

But I ask you, what attracts you personally? For me, it is not so much
familiarity but someone I can learn from and also to some degree be able to
debate with and even have an opposing view. For some reason this heightens the
level of attraction.

Aesthetically, and being of a pansexual nature, I find beauty on the upper
level. I wrote an article about Sapiosexuality some time back. Certainly one's
features are either pleasing to the senses or they are not. I find that those
who are considered to be beautiful by way of the media or tv often appear
rather average to me.

There are no set rules or rationale to levels of attraction. Some may be caused
biochemically and others may be able to be rationalized or placed under a
microscope. But with human relations there is always that little X-Factor, that
certain je ne sais quoi that cannot be nailed down exactly. But that's what
makes humans all the more interesting.

Artwork by:
Fay-who, WickedIllusionART, nosurprises.it
Posted by PT at 10/18/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: attraction, love, pansexuality, sapiosexuality

Friday, October 9, 2015

This Be The Verse by Philip Larkin


[family]


They fuck you up, your mum and dad.
They may not mean to, but they do.
They fill you with the faults they had
And add some extra, just for you.

But they were fucked up in their turn
By fools in old-style hats and coats,
Who half the time were soppy-stern
And half at one another's throats.

Man hands on misery to man.
It deepens like a coastal shelf.
Get out as early as you can,
And don't have any kids yourself.


[philip-larkin-quotes-3]

Learn more here:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philip_Larkin



Posted by PT at 10/09/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Philip Larkin, poetry

Thursday, October 1, 2015

Should Doctor's Offices Be Dishing Out the Prayers?


[prayer]

I am not one to be rude in my doctor's office or to the staff there. But with
more frequency I have come to notice some doctor's and their staff mentioning
"God Bless" or "I'll say a prayer for you." Some atheists get pretty upset
about this and rightfully so. Frankly, when someone says these things to me it
makes me sad, rather than mad. Because I am at a physician's office, not at a
church. Therefore...please don't bring your god into my medical care. It
doesn't make me feel better or more confident. It leaves with this...uugh kind
of feeling. But trying to muster up that thank you and at the same time when it
doesn't come out I somehow feel more ickier than before.

I know people mean well. Maybe I should say something but it seems much harder
in a room full of other patients and I try to remain respectful. As respectful
as I can dealing with chronic diseases. But personally I think God sucks. If he
even existed he would still suck grey donkey balls. I don't even have to
explain why. He's a mythological character from a book and he's not even the
good guy in it.

Now, I don't mind if you want to pray for me in your own time. Just don't
inform me that you're doing it. Just leave your god out of my medical care and
go to your church and pray.

Thank you.

Posted by PT at 10/01/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: atheism, medical, non-belief, physicians, prayers, religion

Wednesday, September 23, 2015

Bill Nye: Can We Stop Telling Women What to Do With Their Bodies?



Published on Sep 22, 2015
The Science Guy argues that most anti-abortion legislation is derived from
outdated beliefs that predate smart science by fifty centuries.

"Nobody likes abortion," says Bill. "But you can’t tell somebody what to do."
It's important that, when dealing with topics pertaining to reproductive
health, the state not interfere with women's bodies. There are other things we
could be worrying about in the world, yet year after year abortion steals away
the headlines, wasting time and effort that could be going toward more
pertinent causes."

Nicely done video via Big Think. 


Posted by PT at 9/23/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: abortion, Bill Nye, biology, pregnancy, science, women's rights

Saturday, September 19, 2015

How to Recognize a Religious Cult and the Classic Techniques They Use

[recognize_religious_cult1]

Comparison: How Dangerous Cults Recruit

1. Recognize vulnerability. The vulnerable person is someone who lacks
something very important. That something can be a network of supportive people
like family or friends. It can be someone who has suffered a significant loss
like the death of a loved one, or a marriage, or job. The sense of loss causes
a person to seek something to fill a void. The predator seeks this kind of
person. 

2. Targeting that vulnerability. Once vulnerabilities have been identified, the
predator tailors his message in such a way that it appears to the victim that
the predator is offering a solution for his victim hood, or can fix his
weakness to make him feel better, safer, etc...

3. Joining the cult. The techniques that the cultist has learned well put the
potential recruit at a disadvantage. The methodology of recruitment involves
subtle techniques of mind control and undue persuasion. A cultist will want to
control the discussion and the victims experience/impression by limiting the
agenda. The discussions are designed to get the potential recruit to buy into a
premise that will lay the groundwork for acceptance of each and every other
doctrine.

4. Effects of fanaticism. The long term effects of involvement with a cult are
many and deep. The effects are powerfully evident. Some of the characteristics
include the loss of ability to trust. Followers can be easily manipulated by
the use of guilt and shame and fear. They often have an unusual fear of
spiritual things with which they are not familiar. They are not relating to
their immediate surroundings and people; they lose the ability to empathize/
rationalize normally and increasingly rely only on the cult dogma as their
guide for both thoughts and actions. 

"The funniest thing about the ^above^ is that it is written by a Christian
organization. So apparently it's only a cult when it's not YOUR chosen dogma." 


Sources: Charisma News and Pinterest. 
Originally pinned and shared via 00Rogue00.
Posted by PT at 9/19/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: atheists, Christianity, recruitment, religious cults

Saturday, September 12, 2015

An Essay on Man


[pope]


 An Essay on Man is a poem published by Alexander Pope in 1734. An effort to
rationalize or rather "vindicate the ways of God to man", a variation of John
Milton's claim in the opening lines of Paradise Lost, that he will "justify the
ways of God to men". It is concerned with the natural order God has decreed for
man. Because man cannot know God's purposes, he cannot complain about his
position in the Great Chain of Being and must accept that "Whatever IS, is
RIGHT", a theme that was satirized by Voltaire in Candide (1759). More than any
other work, it popularized optimistic philosophy throughout England and the
rest of Europe.

The essay, written in heroic couplets, comprises four epistles. Pope began work
on it in 1729, and had finished the first three by 1731. They appeared in early
1733, with the fourth epistle published the following year. The poem was
originally published anonymously; Pope did not admit authorship until 1735.

Often quoted is the following passage, the first verse paragraph of the second
book, which neatly summarizes some of the religious and humanistic tenets of
the poem:

Know then thyself, presume not God to scan
The proper study of Mankind is Man.
Placed on this isthmus of a middle state,
A Being darkly wise, and rudely great:
With too much knowledge for the Sceptic side,
With too much weakness for the Stoic's pride,
He hangs between; in doubt to act, or rest;
In doubt to deem himself a God, or Beast;
In doubt his mind or body to prefer;
Born but to die, and reas'ning but to err;
Alike in ignorance, his reason such,
Whether he thinks too little, or too much;
Chaos of Thought and Passion, all confus'd;
Still by himself, abus'd or disabus'd;
Created half to rise and half to fall;
Great Lord of all things, yet a prey to all,
Sole judge of truth, in endless error hurl'd;
The glory, jest and riddle of the world.

Go, wondrous creature! mount where science guides,
Go, measure earth, weigh air, and state the tides;
Instruct the planets in what orbs to run,
Correct old time, and regulate the sun;
Go, soar with Plato to th’ empyreal sphere,
To the first good, first perfect, and first fair;
Or tread the mazy round his followers trod,
And quitting sense call imitating God;
As Eastern priests in giddy circles run,
And turn their heads to imitate the sun.
Go, teach Eternal Wisdom how to rule—
Then drop into thyself, and be a fool!

Pope says that man has learnt about Nature and God's creation by using science;
science has given man power but man intoxicated by this power thinks that he is
"imitating God". Pope uses the word "fool" to show how little he (man) knows in
spite of the progress made by science.

Rousseau also critiqued Pope's work, questioning his "uncritical assumption
that there must be an unbroken chain of being all the way from inanimate matter
up to God."

In essence, mankind have always been the creators of their own future. There
are no gods, we being the only creators of the world in which we live. We also
happen to be the most destructive. 


Posted by PT at 9/12/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Alexander Pope, An Essay on Man, God, John Milton, poems, Rousseau,
science, Voltaire

Thursday, September 10, 2015

Feel Good Factors for Pessimists

[pessimism]

My guide to feel good posts. Done in my own inimitable way of course ;-)

WARNING: Cynical humour ahead.
The internet brings tons of touchy-feely, good tasting quotes. You know, the
sort that make you smile and sigh pleasantly, going all gooey mentally and
emotionally when you see them?

Well fuck that for a game of soldiers! I'm here to *cough ahem* philosophically
re-align them within a more reality based structural weltanschauung in my own
rancid, cynical little way. Its a dirty job but some fucker has to do it.
Unless it happens to be Larry David or Woody Allen, in which case, leave it to
the professionals, but enjoy these humourous & amateurish scraps anyway. ;-)

1) "Sometimes when I say "I'm okay" I want someone to look me in the eyes, hug
me tightly, and say "I know you are not."

Sometimes when I say "I'm okay" I want someone to look me in the eyes, hug me
tightly and say "No you are not, you're a complete and utter fucking psycho and
we're gonna get twenty to life for this little escapade you've dragged us both
into!"

2) "Reality is wrong, dreams are for real" - Tupac.

Until you start dreaming you have wings, then I'd really encourage you to go
for that shit off a twenty story building and see which one wins between the
two.

3) "Don't lose hope, you never know what tomorrow might bring."

Like watching your enemy smacked by a heavy goods vehicle at 90 mph, a fucktard
apocalypse, or a fissure on your bosses anus as big as the grand canyon that he
can't stop clawing at in public. You gotta have hope, right?

4) "Don't spend time beating on a wall, hoping it will transform into a door" -
Coco Chanel.
No, just spend some cash on two sticks of dynamite and blow that fucker
sideways, its takes up less energy.

5) Note to self: "Don't worry, if it's supposed to happen, it will."

Like those dreams at 3am of covering "XYZ" (insert fave fantasy fuck figure of
dubious celebrity status here) in chocolate sauce and then deliriously feeding
yourself off as he/she squirms in delight handcuffed to the bed. Yeah right,
dream on sucker! Best to get the Kleenex, and that bottle of hand lotion you
keep in the bedside cabinet out!

6) "Whether its a friendship or relationship, all bonds are built on trust.
Without it, you have nothing."

Unless your friendly Mr Rogers type neighbour happens to have strong
kleptomaniacal tendencies that result in burglary. Then he has your wallet,
your colour TV, your stereo, that de Longhi toaster you've been dreaming of all
your life, your Blu-Ray player, your wife............

7) Everyone makes mistakes in life, but that doesn't mean they have to pay for
them the rest of their life. Sometimes good people make bad choices, it doesn't
mean they're bad, it means they're human"

Like Ted Bundy, Charlie Manson, Adolf Hitler or that mad guy foaming at the
mouth who's just climbed inside your living room window at 2am with an axe to
grind (literally!)

8) "Love is caring for each other even when you're angry."

And what's better than that post-argument, "make-up after a row" type sex where
you're fucking each other like two rage-filled bunny's fuelled on benzedrine,
eh?

9) "The best accessory a woman can have? Her smile."
Unless she has a rich husband older than Methuselah and burdened with a dodgy
heart ticker. If it beats ninety to the dozen everytime she brushes up against
him and the Will is made out to her being benefactor, even better. You really
can't top that shit off by flashing a set of Kardashian pearly whites, can you?

10) "Don't confuse the people who are always around with the ones who are
always there."

They're called stalkers usually. A court order or hiring a hitman will usually
take care of that little problem, head on. Or your boss who's like a nappy and
hangs around your arse all day smelling like shit. Yeah, so I stole that last
line, sue me fucker!

 11) "You get in life what you have the courage to ask for" - Oprah Winfrey

That's right, do that billion dollar bank job you've always plotted about in
your darkest criminal fantasies whilst struggling to get back to sleep at 3am.
Thrust that shotgun into the poor, bespectacled bank teller's face as he cacks
himself at you screaming like a coked-up, ski-masked baboon "The money
motherfucker, gimme the money.....in the bag....now!". And then blame it all on
Oprah. It's not exactly the perfect legal defense but hey nothing ventured,
nothing gained, eh?

12) "I know love comes and goes, but maybe, just maybe, this love will stay."

Particularly if they're gagged & tied up in your basement and there weren't any
witnesses to you huckling them into the back of the black van that Saturday
night.

13) "You have to find what sparks a light in you so that you in your own way
can illuminate the world" - Oprah Winfrey

Spontaneous human combustion for the win, people!


[pessimism-the]

Posted by Alannah at 9/10/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: humor, pessimism

Thursday, September 3, 2015

My Hannibal Lecter Doll


[Hannibal_Copyright]

Here we start with the basic build of Dr Hannibal Lecter. Using the Eleven 1/6
Action Figure Head Sculpt of Mads Mikkelsen. It came with the ball neck joint
for Hottoys , Enterbay, and Medicom toys body. I purchased the head sculpt
through Ebay for $49 through a a seller in Hong Kong. Now, I know you're
thinking his head looks high off his shoulders. But I am going to show you how
his suit takes care of this further in this article. But it is also something
you need to consider when putting a doll together what type of neck goes with
the particular body your purchasing.

The body is a 1/6 Caucasian Male Narrow Shoulder Nude Body 12" Figure fit
Hottoys ttl. It has 30 points of articulation. Comes with 5 hands, neck joint,
feet, and tights. This is a reasonably priced body for around $20. For my
purposes here I didn't want to spend a lot of money on a body since he's going
to have clothes on and chances are I'm not going to be continually posing him.
However, there are better quality bodies you just have to decide if you want to
pay for that. I took a photo of Mikkelsen's semi-nude body and decided on this
particular doll body being closest to the actor's build.

Although he is articulated. I wouldn't say that all his moving parts are
necessarily smoothly jointed. The body is somewhat shiny plastic. With that
said you will have to attach the neck joint and then to the body. Your choice
of hands of course, and then the feet. The hardest part for me to attach was
the neck joint. The hands and feet are rather easy. I don't want to say
delicate, but you probably want to be careful popping them on and off. Once
again I purchased the body through the same seller on Ebay and I will post the
source of their website at the end of this post for you.

[HannibalOutfit_CopyrightPT]

Here he is! Hannibal clothed. Awesome, huh? It took time to order a proper suit
which delayed the finish of this doll by several months. But I wanted to choose
something that was more in keeping with Hannibal's style and that was not an
easy task with a limited selection of attire. This is the Ace Toyz ACT002 1/6
Scale Nobility Suit Set. With shipping it was around the $46 mark. As I
mentioned above the clothing takes care of that off the shoulders neck joint.
This outfit included the suit, vest, tie, belt with buckle, pants, and shoes. I
was pleased with the quality and style. I spent a lot of time getting one of
his shoes on. For some reason one went on somewhat easier than the other. I
also was trying to be careful due to the jointed ankles of his feet.

[Hannibalbackside_CopyrightPT]

In this photo you can see the back of his vest, shirt, and pants. The outfit
and shoes are primarily black and as you can see pretty well done with the
sewing on it.

[Hannibalvest_CopyrightPT]

Hannibal in his vest from a front view where you can also see the buttons and
his shirt collar.


[Hannibalshoes_CopyrightPT]

Hannibal's shoes. They are made pretty much like you would expect. Soft rubber.
There was certainly a lot of toe room in the front. But I realized it was
pretty easy to stand him with these on. I should mention that no socks or
stockings came with this outfit. I am thinking it might have been easier to get
his shoes on with a little thin hose to slide them on easier. No stand was
required. Although I still would recommend one to prevent falling off the
shelf.

[Hannibaldressed_CopyrightPT]

Hannibal from head to toe here. I really like the blue tie that sets this off.
The vest itself is a dark blue but even in person it looks very dark. I think
he looks pretty awesome here. I had a lot of fun putting him together. Now if
only there was a Will Graham - Hugh Dancy head sculpt I would be on it, right
quick. Obviously Hannibal needs his partner in crime. Maybe the sculptors will
hear my plea?

I hope you enjoyed the read and personal photos. Oh, and I am also going to
list my source below where you can find many custom head sculpts, clothing, and
awesome accessories to go along with your figures.

They ship worldwide, have a currency converter on their page, and have had very
good service with them.  http://www.kghobby.com/  Do check them out.


Posted by PT at 9/03/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Dolls, Hannibal doll, Hannibal Lecter, Mads Mikkelsen

Monday, August 31, 2015

No, You're Not Entitled To Your Opinion


[Stokes]

Patrick Stokes is a a philosopher at Deakin University, and has previously held
research fellowships in the UK and the US. He remains a Research Fellow at the
University of Hertfordshire.

His areas of research include personal identity, philosophy of death and
remembrance, 19th and 20th century European philosophy (especially the work of
Søren Kierkegaard), moral psychology, and philosophy of religion.

Encouraging all readers of this blog to review the article that accompanies
this quote above.

Sources:
http://www.iflscience.com/brain/no-youre-not-entitled-your-opinion

http://theconversation.com/no-youre-not-entitled-to-your-opinion-9978


Posted by PT at 8/31/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: beliefs, opinions, Patrick Stokes, philosophy, religion

Thursday, August 27, 2015

Dear Linda

When you go out of your way to block me and my partner via Facebook because you
entered into a conversation with an agenda and lacking objectivity, all
conversation ceases because of your own actions. Let me explain that simply
because you lack an understanding of a topic and flee the scene you most
certainly had the choice to avoid causing issue by not engaging in our
conversation to begin with. You seem to lack respect for our decision when we
told you that we would not return to the temple, and then became
uncommunicative when questioned in regards to things you yourself stated. You
may have plenty of things to say to us but please confront us directly, if you
feel the need. Not through our friends. It is note worthy that you continue to
follow the blog while twisting our words elsewhere. For someone who claims to
understand our views, it doesn't come across that way when you react in an
opposing manner to them and have done this on a couple sites in which we are
not members of, but have alerted us to. From the looks of things you neither
respected our views or were trying to find people that agree with your own and
by relaying it in a manner that is not how it was explained to you. My
suggestion is if you like your friends and respect their opinions, you probably
want to have healthier discussions. In addition realize that ridiculing an idea
is useful in challenging old ideas and is not the same as being in junior high
where a student is singled out and being picked on. Which is similar to what
you suggested below.

[conversation]


We wish you well on your personal chosen path and hopefully we can move on from
this. We enjoyed the friendship while it lasted.   ~Pagan & Alannah


[11896261_10153732084074728_2016960115897414379_n]



Posted by PT at 8/27/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: friend or foe, temple illuminatus

Tuesday, August 25, 2015

The Philosophy of Atheism by Emma Goldman

First published in February 1916 in the Mother Earth journal.

To give an adequate exposition of the Philosophy of Atheism, it would be
necessary to go into the historical changes of the belief in a Deity, from its
earliest beginning to the present day. But that is not within the scope of the
present paper. However, it is not out of place to mention, in passing, that the
concept God, Supernatural Power, Spirit, Deity, or in whatever other term the
essence of Theism may have found expression, has become more indefinite and
obscure in the course of time and progress. In other words, the God idea is
growing more impersonal and nebulous in- proportion as the human mind is
learning to understand natural phenomena and in the degree that science
progressively correlates human and social events.

God, today, no longer represents the same forces as in the beginning of His
existence; neither does He direct human destiny with the same Iron hand as of
yore. Rather does the God idea express a sort of spiritualistic stimalus to
satisfy the fads and fancies of every shade of human weakness. In the course of
human development the God idea has been forced to adapt itself to every phase
of human affairs, which is perfectly consistent with the origin of the idea
itself.

The conception of gods originated in fear and curiosity. Primitive man, unable
to understand the phenomena of nature and harassed by them, saw in every
terrifying manifestation some sinister force expressly directed against him;
and as ignorance and fear are the parents of all superstition, the troubled
fancy of primitive man wove the God idea.

Very aptly, the world-renowned atheist and anarchist, Michael Bakunin, says in
his great work God and the State: "All religions, with their gods, their
demi-gods, and their prophets, their messiahs and their saints, were created by
the prejudiced fancy of men who had not attained the full development and full
possession of their faculties. Consequently, the religious heaven is nothing
but the mirage in which man, exalted by ignorance and faith, discovered his own
image, but enlarged and reversed -- that is divinised. The history of
religions, of the birth, grandeur, and the decline of the gods who had
succeeded one another in human belief, is nothing, therefore, but the
development of the collective intelligence and conscience of mankind. As fast
as they discovered, in the course of their historically progressive advance,
either in themselves or in external nature, a quality, or even any great defect
whatever, they attributed it to their gods, after having exaggerated and
enlarged it beyond measure, after the manner of children, by an act of their
religious fancy. . . . With all due respect, then, to the metaphysicians and
religious idealists, philosophers, politicians or poets: the idea of God
implies the abdication of human reason and justice; it is the most decisive
negation of human liberty, and necessarily ends in the enslavement of mankind,
both in theory and practice."

Thus the God idea, revived, readjusted, and enlarged or narrowed, according to
the necessity of the time, has dominated humanity and will continue to do so
until man will raise his head to the sunlit day, unafraid and with an awakened
will to himself. In proportion as man learns to realize himself and mold his
own destiny theism becomes superfluous. How far man will be able to find his
relation to his fellows will depend entirely upon how much he can outgrow his
dependence upon God.

Already there are indications that theism, which is the theory of speculation,
is being replaced by Atheism, the science of demonstration; the one hangs in
the metaphysical clouds of the Beyond, while the other has its roots firmly in
the soil. It is the earth, not heaven, which man must rescue if he is truly to
be saved.

The decline of theism is a most interesting spectacle, especially as manifested
in the anxiety of the theists, whatever their particular brand. They realize,
much to their distress, that the masses are growing daily more atheistic, more
anti-religious; that they are quite willing to leave the Great Beyond and its
heavenly domain to the angels and sparrows; because more and more the masses
are becoming engrossed in the problems of their immediate existence.

How to bring the masses back to the God idea, the spirit, the First Cause, etc.
- that is the most pressing question to all theists. Metaphysical as all these
questions seem to be, they yet have a very marked physical background. Inasmuch
as religion, "Divine Truth," rewards and punishments are the trade-marks of the
largest, the most corrupt and pernicious, the most powerful and lucrative
industry in the world, not excepting the industry of manufacturing guns and
munitions. It is the industry of befogging the human mind and stifling the
human heart. Necessity knows no law; hence the majority of theists are
compelled to take up every subject, even if it has no bearing upon a deity or
revelation or the Great Beyond. Perhaps they sense the fact that humanity is
growing weary of the hundred and one brands of God.

How to raise this dead level of theistic belief is really a matter of life and
death for all denominations. Therefore their tolerance; but it is a tolerance
not of understanding; but of weakness. Perhaps that explains the efforts
fostered in all religious publications to combine variegated religious
philosophies and conflicting theistic theories into one denominational trust.
More and more, the various concepts "of the only tree God, the only pure
spirit, -- the only true religion" are tolerantly glossed over in the frantic
effort to establish a common ground to rescue the modern mass from the
"pernicious" influence of atheistic ideas.

It is characteristic of theistic "tolerance" that no one really cares what the
people believe in, just so they believe or pretend to believe. To accomplish
this end, the crudest and vulgarest methods are being used. Religious endeavor
meetings and revivals with Billy Sunday as their champion -methods which must
outrage every refined sense, and which in their effect upon the ignorant and
curious often tend to create a mild state of insanity not infrequently coupled
with eroto-mania. All these frantic efforts find approval and support from the
earthly powers; from the Russian despot to the American President; from
Rockefeller and Wanamaker down to the pettiest business man. They blow that
capital invested in Billy Sunday, the Y.M.C.A., Christian Science, and various
other religious institutions will return enormous profits from the subdued,
tamed, and dull masses.

Consciously or unconsciously, most theists see in gods and devils, heaven and
hell; reward and punishnient, a whip to lash the people into obedience,
meekness and contentment. The truth is that theism would have lost its foeting
long before this but for the combined support of Mammon and power. How
thoroughly banlrupt it really is, is being demonstrated in the trenches and
battlefields of Europe today.

Have not all theists painted their Deity as the god of love and goodness? Yet
after thousands of years of such preachments the gods remain deaf to the agony
of the human race. Confucius cares not for the poverty, squalor and misery of
people of China. Buddha remains undisturbed in his philosophical indifference
to the famine and starvation of outraged Hindoos; Jahve continues deaf to the
bitter cry of Israel; while Jesus refuses to rise from the dead against his
Christians who are butchering each other.

The burden of all song and praise "unto the Highest" has been that God stands
for justice and mercy. Yet injustice among men is ever on the increase; the
outrages committed against the masses in this country alone would seem enough
to overflow the very heavens. But where are the gods to make an end to all
these horrors, these wrongs, this inhumanity to man? No, not the gods, but MAN
must rise in his mighty wrath. He, deceived by all the deities, betrayed by
their emissaries, he, himself, must undertake to usher in justice upon the
earth.

The philosophy of Atheism expresses the expansion and growth of the human mind.
The philosophy of theism, if we can call it philosophy, is static and fixed.
Even the mere attempt to pierce these mysteries represents, from the theistic
point of view, non-belief in the all-embracing omnipotence, and even a denial
of the wisdom of the divine powers outside of man. Fortunately, however, the
human mind never was, and never can be, bound by fixities. Hence it is forging
ahead in its restless march towards knowledge and life. The human mind is
realizing "that the universe is not the result of a creative fiat by some
divine intelligence, out of nothing, producing a masterpiece chaotic in perfect
operation," but that it is the product of chaotic forces operating through
aeons of time, of clashes and cataclysms, of repulsion and attraction
crystalizing through the principle of selection into what the theists call,
"the universe guided into order and beauty." As Joseph McCabe well points out
in his Existence ot God: "a law of nature is not a formula drawn up by a
legislator, but a mere summary of the observed facts -- a 'bundle of facts.'
Things do not act in a particular way because there is a law, but we state the
'law' because they act in that way."

The philosophy of Atheism represents a concept of life without any metaphysical
Beyond or Divine Regulator. It is the concept of an actual, real world with its
liberating, expanding and beautifying possibilities, as against an unreal
world, which, with its spirits, oracles, and mean contentment has kept humanity
in helpless degradation.

It may seem a wild paradox, and yet it is pathetically true, that this real,
visible world and our life should have been so long under the influence of
metaphysical speculation, rather than of physical demonstrable forces. Under
the lash of the theistic idea, this earth has served no other purpose than as a
temporary station to test man's capacity for immolation to the will of God. But
the moment man attempted to ascertain the nature of that will, he was told that
it was utterly futile for "finite human intelligence" to get beyond the
all-powerful infinite will. Under the terrific weight of this omnipotence, man
has been bowed into the dust -- a willless creature, broken and sweating in the
dark. The triumph of the philosophy of Atheism is to free man from the
nightmare of gods; it means the dissolution of the phantoms of the beyond.
Again and again the light of reason has dispelled the theistic nightmare, but
poverty, misery and fear have recreated the phantoms -- though whether old or
new, whatever their external form, they differed little in their essence.
Atheism, on the other hand, in its philosophic aspect refuses allegiance not
merely to a definite concept of God, but it refuses all servitude to the God
idea, and opposes the theistic principle as such. Gods in their individual
function are not half as pernicious as the principle of theism which represents
the belief in a supernatural, or even omnipotent, power to rule the earth and
man upon it. It is the absolutism of theism, its pernicious influence upon
humanity, its paralyzing effect upon thought and action, which Atheism is
fighting with all its power.

The philosophy of Atheism has its root in the earth, in this life; its aim is
the emancipation of the human race from all God-heads, be they Judaic,
Christian, Mohammedan, Buddhistic, Brahministic, or what not. Mankind has been
punished long and heavily for having created its gods; nothing but pain and
persecution have been man's lot since gods began. There is but one way out of
this blunder: Man must break his fetters which have chained him to the gates of
heaven and hell, so that he can begin to fashion out of his reawakened and
illumined consciousness a new world upon earth.

Only after the triumph of the Atheistic philosophy in the minds and hearts of
man will freedom and beauty be realized. Beauty as a gift from heaven has
proved useless. It will, however, become the essence and impetus of life when
man learns to see in the earth the only heaven fit for man. Atheism is already
helping to free man from his dependence upon punishment and reward as the
heavenly bargain- counter for the poor in spirit.

Do not all theists insist that there can be no morality, no justice, honesty or
fidelity without the belief in a Divine Power? Based upon fear and hope, such
morality has always been a vile product, imbued partiy with self-
righteousness, partly with hypocrisy. As to truth, justice, and fidelity, who
have been their brave exponents and daring proclaimers? Nearly always the
godless ones: the Atheists; they lived, fought, and died for them. They knew
that justice, truth, and fidelity are not, conditioned in heaven, but that they
are related to and interwoven with the tremendous changes going on in the
social and material life of the human race; not fixed and eternal, but
fluctuating, even as life itself. To what heights the philosophy of Atheism may
yet attain, no one can prophesy. But this much can already be predicted: only
by its regenerating fire will human relations be purged from the horrors of the
past

Thoughtful people are beginning to realize that moral precepts, imposed upon
humanity through religious terror, have become stereotyped and have therefore
lost all vitality. A glance at life today, at its disintegrating character, its
conflicting interests with their hatreds, crimes, and greed, suffices to prove
the sterility of theistic morality.

Man must get back to himself before he can learn his relation to his fellows.
Prometheus chained to the Rock of Ages is doomed to remain the prey of the
vultures of darkness. Unbind Prometheus, and you dispel the night and its
horrors.

Atheism in its negation of gods is at the same time the strongest affirmation
of man, and through man, the eternal yea to life, purpose, and beauty.


[emma_goldman_on_atheism___by_rationalhub-d5i6c92]

Posted by Alannah at 8/25/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Thursday, August 20, 2015

Not a Gustav Klimt


[Not]

Chances are you have seen this beautiful painting online if you enjoy art.
Unfortunately, thanks to the internet, it is being misidentified as a Gustav
Klimt painting. It is in fact a work entitled Larme D'or by Anne Marie
Zilberman. It's always a good idea to research art work to give the artist the
credit they deserve for their work. See also https://www.facebook.com/
amzylberman. Her last name is sometimes spelled with a "y" or an "i" online and
due to French/English translations.
Posted by PT at 8/20/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Anne Marie Zilberman, Gustav Klimt

Monday, August 17, 2015

The More Realistic Co-Exist Poster

[e2acec3d57089dc502354fe1917a9eea]

Goodness, you've probably seen those pesky co-exist bumper stickers on cars as
well as the newer "Tolerance" stickers. Never liked them myself. But this is a
better poster because it's more realistic and doesn't ignore the problems
religion causes. Those co-exist bumper stickers may be well-intentioned, but
are propaganda. In fact some of the people that are ever so supportive of the
Coexist movement are the least tolerant I have come to experience in
conversations. More or less they want to be perceived as being tolerant and
supportive when in actuality they aren't.



Posted by PT at 8/17/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: bumper stickers, coexist, tolerance

Friday, July 17, 2015

Gund: Zag Bear Review


[zag]

It's been a while since I've done a review and I chose this little guy from my
collection to write about today. Gund is a manufacturer of plush toys and was
founded by German immigrant Adolph Gund in 1898. In July of 2008 Gund was sold
to Enesco, which is known for their Cherished Teddies line.

Gund is known for under-stuffing their products to make them softer than
competing teddy bears and has been popular with parents and collectors for as
long as I can remember. As a child these were the stuffed toys that were always
on my holiday list and as an adult opening a shipment of Gund to display on the
store shelves seemed more like fun than actual work.

When I saw the Gund Zag bear I thought how unique this particular one is due to
its silver grey, striped design. Measuring 16 inches in height is ooh so very
soft and huggable. For ages 1+. He looks somewhat similar to the Gund Beige
Toothpick bear.

Zag's bottom is lightly weighted so that he can sit and be slightly posed. As
well his feet are weighted with micro beads. Floppy arms and legs add to his
play value. This bear features a cute stitched smile off to the side which can
be seen more so from a resting position on a bed. So sweet and soft I give this
one high marks for its unique look, colors, and style. As always the stitching
on Gund plush is done very well and is surface washable.  Zag's product number
is #4044071. Available online and in stores. Zag sells for approximately 15 US
dollars and is available in various countries.


Posted by PT at 7/17/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: bears, Gund, plush toys, Zag

Saturday, June 27, 2015

1,500 Animal Species Practice Homosexuality

[homosexual]


I wanted to post this article in particular because to my surprise there are
still some people out there who do not believe that homosexuality exists in the
animal kingdom. I thought this was such a great article I wanted to preserve it
here for those in need of an education into the animal world. It was originally
published in October of 2006.

Homosexuality is quite common in the animal kingdom, especially among herding
animals. Many animals solve conflicts by practicing same gender sex.

From the middle of October until next summer the Norwegian Natural History
Museum of the University of Oslo will host the first exhibition that focuses on
homosexuality in the animal kingdom.

"One fundamental premise in social debates has been that homosexuality is
unnatural. This premise is wrong. Homosexuality is both common and highly
essential in the lives of a number of species," explains Petter Boeckman, who
is the academic advisor for the "Against Nature's Order?" exhibition.

The most well-known homosexual animal is the dwarf chimpanzee, one of
humanity's closes relatives. The entire species is bisexual. Sex plays an
conspicuous role in all their activities and takes the focus away from
violence, which is the most typical method of solving conflicts among primates
and many other animals.

"Sex among dwarf chimpanzees is in fact the business of the whole family, and
the cute little ones often lend a helping hand when they engage in oral sex
with each other."

Lions are also homosexual. Male lions often band together with their brothers
to lead the pride. To ensure loyalty, they strengthen the bonds by often having
sex with each other.

Homosexuality is also quite common among dolphins and killer whales. The
pairing of males and females is fleeting, while between males, a pair can stay
together for years. Homosexual sex between different species is not unusual
either. Meetings between different dolphin species can be quite violent, but
the tension is often broken by a "sex orgy".

Homosexuality is a social phenomenon and is most widespread among animals with
a complex herd life.

Among the apes it is the females that create the continuity within the group.
The social network is maintained not only by sharing food and the child
rearing, but also by having sex. Among many of the female apes the sex organs
swell up. So they rub their abdomens against each other," explains Petter
Bockman and points out that animals have sex because they have the desire to,
just like we humans.

Homosexual behaviour has been observed in 1,500 animal species.

"We're talking about everything from mammals to crabs and worms. The actual
number is of course much higher. Among some animals homosexual behaviour is
rare, some having sex with the same gender only a part of their life, while
other animals, such as the dwarf chimpanzee, homosexuality is practiced
throughout their lives."

Animals that live a completely homosexual life can also be found. This occurs
especially among birds that will pair with one partner for life, which is the
case with geese and ducks. Four to five percent of the couples are homosexual.
Single females will lay eggs in a homosexual pair's nest. It has been observced
that the homosexual couple are often better at raising the young than
heterosexual couples.

When you see a colony of black-headed gulls, you can be sure that almost every
tenth pair is lesbian. The females have no problems with being impregnated,
although, according to Petter Boeckman they cannot be defined as bisexual.

"If a female has sex with a male one time, but thousands of times with another
female, is she bisexual or homosexual? This is the same way to have children is
not unknown among homosexual people."

Indeed, there is a number of animals in which homosexual behaviour has never
been observed, such as many insects, passerine birds and small mammals.

"To turn the approach on its head: No species has been found in which
homosexual behaviour has not been shown to exist, with the exception of species
that never have sex at all, such as sea urchins and aphis. Moreover, a part of
the animal kingdom is hermaphroditic, truly bisexual. For them, homosexuality
is not an issue."

Petter Bockman regrets that there is too little research about homosexuality
among animals.

"The theme has long been taboo. The problem is that researchers have not seen
for themselves that the phenomenon exists or they have been confused when
observing homosexual behaviour or that they are fearful of being ridiculed by
their colleagues. Many therefore overlook the abundance of material that is
found. Many researchers have described homosexuality as something altogether
different from sex. They must realise that animals can have sex with who they
will, when they will and without consideration to a researcher's ethical
principles."

One example of overlooking behaviour noted by Petter Bockman is a description
of mating among giraffes, when nine out of ten pairings occur between males.

"Every male that sniffed a female was reported as sex, while anal intercourse
with orgasm between males was only "revolving around" dominance, competition or
greetings.

Masturbation is common in the animal kingdom.

"Masturbation is the simplest method of self pleasure. We have a Darwinist
mentality that all animals only have sex to procreate. But there are plenty of
animals who will masturbate when they have nothing better to do. Masturbation
has been observed among primates, deer, killer whales and penguins, and we're
talking about both males and females. They rub themselves against stones and
roots. Orangutans are especially inventive. They make dildos of wood and bark,"
says Petter Boeckman of the Norwegian Natural History Museum.

Read in | English | Español | Français | Deutsch | Português | Italiano | 日本
語 | 한국어 | 简体中文 | 繁體中文 | Nederlands | Русский | Svenska | Polski

Sources: http://www.uio.no/ and 
http://www.news-medical.net/news/2006/10/23/
1500-animal-species-practice-homosexuality.aspx


Posted by PT at 6/27/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: animal homosexuality

Friday, June 19, 2015

Hazel Dickens Performing Black Lung


In this video Hazel Dickens speaks and sings to an audience about her family
and the lives of coal miners. It is a powerful song that resonates with me
making me reflect what it was like and for many others besides.




Hazel Jane Dickens (June 1, 1935 – April 22, 2011) was an American bluegrass
singer, songwriter, double bassist, and guitarist. Her music was characterized
not only by her high, lonesome singing style, but also by her provocative pro-
union, feminist songs.  The New York Times extolled her as "a clarion-voiced
advocate for coal miners and working people and a pioneer among women in
bluegrass music." With Alice Gerrard, Dickens was one of the first women to
record a bluegrass album.


[coalminer]

"It’s not only victims of racial discrimination who suffer from health
disparities but working people in general who bear an unequal burden of
sickness and death. Nowhere is this fact more clear than among workers and
working farmers in rural America." ~Dr. Norm Oliver, Director of UVa Center on
Health Disparities


Posted by PT at 6/19/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: black lung, coal mining, hazel dickens

Wednesday, June 17, 2015

Being Child-free and the Blame Game


[damned]


More women these days are deciding to not have children but what can they
expect at their GYN office?

Well, I never had kids. The reasons aren't important here. However, a recent
appointment left me unprepared for what I was about to hear and that was
because I didn't have kids that I would get cancer.

Hello? Come again? Apparently this is the new blame game they are playing now.
I was not prepared for this one at all. I didn't believe this information. More
importantly I was told in a way that it was my fault for what was happening to
me.

Not just because of my diseases that put me at this higher risk. But because I
didn't have children. I could feel the twist of the knife as she said it. I was
being judged for not being a mother.

I was fucking furious with this woman, a nurse practitioner, who at a later
date would get the worst survey review I have ever written in the few blank
lines that were provided. But not before I did some research and there is some
evidence to suggest that women who don’t bear children are at some risk. But at
more risk than females who produced children? Ummm...yeah see there is the
problem when a physician or nurse practitioner adopts what a study says without
too many questions about the study itself or their patient, how it relates, or
doesn’t relate to them. More importantly that what said study says is in
alignment with their own beliefs or viewpoints in regards to bringing children
into the world thereby strengthening it. 

I never really trusted going to the gynecologist's office. It doesn't matter if
it's a man or a woman wearing the white coat. It doesn’t matter that there is
an additional person in the room. There is politics and bias the moment you
walk through the door.  Of course you might say well you’ll find that
everywhere these days. Yes and no. If that were entirely true I probably
wouldn’t feel the need to be writing about this particular topic.

Over the years I have visited many different types of physicians and
practitioners. It’s not the first time I have encountered the blame game or
flawed thinking. Some may not realize they are doing it but it does harm the
patient. Because the patient never forgets how a physician or practitioner made
them feel. Especially after they’ve bared their bodies to them, had instruments
up their privates, and/or have experienced traumatic events. I hold those in
medical to a higher level and they should hold themselves to a higher standard,
too. 


Posted by PT at 6/17/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: blame game, child-free, gynecologists

Wednesday, June 10, 2015

Think Before You Share


[Scott]

A year ago today I shared this quote on my Facebook by Scott Huler and thought
it was worth a re-post on the blog here. This came from a June 9th article in
the Science section of The Slate.

How do you fact-check? Here are just a few ideas to get you started.


  • Ask the person making the claim for evidence.
  • Look for what other fact-checkers have found before you.
  • Do multiple online searches after listing keywords to search on.
  • Does the article list their sources of information?
  • How old is the information? Is there anything new since then?
  • What are the experts saying? Is the source unbiased?
  • Who is the author? Is that person a reliable source? How did they gather
    their information?
  • Look for sources which have credentials in the area of expertise in which
    the claim emanates.


Fact-checking is worth your time and effort. It communicates that you care
about the information you are presenting to other readers. It helps them to
make sound decisions about the topics presented when they know the facts are
true.


Posted by PT at 6/10/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Fact checking

Sunday, June 7, 2015

The Socratic Method of Questioning


[questions]


Arguments can become heated and get out of hand when anger enters into the
equation, often leaving both parties frustrated and upset. Using Socratic
questioning in an argument, however, can help people see things from your
perspective without causing unnecessary conflict.

Rather than making points, the Socratic method concentrates on asking questions
to help both parties think about the situation rather than just verbalize their
feelings.

The Socratic Method is not about proving people wrong, but challenging
assumptions. If your goal is to argue effectively this method is best used for
challenging even your own beliefs.


Posted by PT at 6/07/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: arguments, logic, questions, Socratic Method

Wednesday, June 3, 2015

Criticism Does Not Always Equate to Bullying


[Daniel]

Atheist Republic recently asked the question "Is it rude to suggest that one's
life has been devoted to a delusion?" I'd love to answer this question here on
the blog as recently a friend posted that I was trying to "recruit" her to
atheism.

Atheism isn't a movement or what some people refer to as a path. There are no
dues to pay, no deities to worship, no promises of an after-life, no product to
sell, and no ID cards. Atheism isn't a religion; it's simply a lack of belief
in a god or goddess.

In explaining to her that people have rights, but beliefs do not, she decided
to block me and my partner for providing her food for thought on what she
claimed was bullying. Fairly common when something said suddenly makes good
sense and cognitive dissonance sets in. She felt all beliefs should be
respected. Obviously...not questioned.

Now while some people may find it rude to question or even ridicule an idea or
belief, I personally do not. Most atheists are not in the habit of venturing to
believers personal pages. In fact, it's more than likely a person has ventured
to an atheist page to spout their own beliefs and when that happens it opens up
a discussion or debate. Some atheist's are accustomed to debating and that can
be somewhat overwhelming for someone who is less than prepared. Rather than
consider they might be wrong, the block feature becomes an easy choice. And you
know what? That's ok, to me. Because that tells me they aren't open to
discussing anything. Which also means they aren't open to those who share a
lack of belief or their ideas. So when spouting about respect of other peoples
beliefs. Surely, you've shown us none for our lack of it.


Posted by PT at 6/03/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: beliefs, Daniel Dennett, delusions, rudeness

Sunday, May 31, 2015

Not From Your Tribe


[warriors]


Do not be so quick to follow other peoples truths. Rather search for your own
moral code to live by. Most warrior cultures share at least one belief. Do you
know what that is?



Posted by PT at 5/31/2015 No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: code, warriors
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)

About This Blog

About This Blog
●
Features my thoughts on a variety of topics including critical thinking,
skepticism, atheism, human rights, religions, history, medical, collecting,
art, and photography. My partner, Alannah, is a contributor to the blog. Her
interests are of the darkness and exploration of the human condition. She is a
Nietzschean atheist and LaVeyan Satanist.
●

Blog Archive

  • ▼  2016 (2)
      □ ▼  January (2)
          ☆ Fooling 'Professional' Psychics - Derren Brown
          ☆ What is Moral Decay?

  • ►  2015 (60)
      □ ►  December (3)
      □ ►  November (2)
      □ ►  October (5)
      □ ►  September (5)
      □ ►  August (5)
      □ ►  July (1)
      □ ►  June (6)
      □ ►  May (6)
      □ ►  April (4)
      □ ►  March (5)
      □ ►  February (7)
      □ ►  January (11)

  • ►  2014 (25)
      □ ►  December (5)
      □ ►  November (2)
      □ ►  September (1)
      □ ►  August (2)
      □ ►  July (7)
      □ ►  June (2)
      □ ►  May (2)
      □ ►  March (2)
      □ ►  February (1)
      □ ►  January (1)

  • ►  2013 (14)
      □ ►  December (2)
      □ ►  November (3)
      □ ►  October (1)
      □ ►  September (1)
      □ ►  August (1)
      □ ►  June (2)
      □ ►  May (2)
      □ ►  April (1)
      □ ►  January (1)

  • ►  2012 (5)
      □ ►  December (3)
      □ ►  November (1)
      □ ►  September (1)

  • ►  2011 (4)
      □ ►  December (1)
      □ ►  November (2)
      □ ►  October (1)

●

Subscribe To

[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
●

Translate

●

Find us on Pinterest

 

 

●
Comic Creations

  • The Happy Couple

●

Page List

  • Atheist Podcasts
  • Atheist and Skeptical Resources
  • Logical Fallacies
  • Seven Different Types of Non-Believers
  • Resources for Atheistic Satanists

●

Find us on.....

Pagan Trillanie
[1000022940]
Create Your Badge

Follow @PaganTrillanie

●
Alannah Richards
[1000013167]
Create your badge

Follow @Alannah_De_Sade
                                                    
●

Link List

  • Black Nonbelievers, Inc
  • Book of Bad Arguments
  • Church of Satan
  • Debunking Christianity
  • Evil Bible
  • Evolve Fish
  • Freedom From Religion Foundation
  • From a Whisper to a Scream
  • Godless Mom
  • Greta Christina
  • Lia Scott Price
  • Morbid Anatomy
  • Neurologica Blog
  • One Atheist's Thoughts
  • Patheos Atheist
  • Pennsylvania Nonbelievers
  • RationalWiki
  • Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason & Science
  • Sam Harris
  • Science-Based Medicine
  • Secular Web
  • Skeptics Society and Skeptic Magazine
  • Tim Burton Gallery
  • Trobar De Morte
  • iSatanist

●
 
Copyright 2011 - 2016. Picture Window template. Template images by mammuth.
Powered by Blogger.
●
