                                                                                                                      
                                                         
          NavBar Icon NavBar Icon NavBar Icon NavBar Icon NavBar Icon
NavBar Navigation NavBar Navigation NavBar Navigation NavBar Navigation NavBar Navigation NavBar Navigation NavBar
Icon   Menu       Icon   Menu       Icon   Menu       Icon   Menu       Icon   Menu       Icon   Menu       Icon
       Spacer 13         Spacer 13         Spacer 13         Spacer 13         Spacer 13         Spacer 13
                            Invisible Spacer 4x4                  Invisible Spacer 4x4
                             . Overview of Our Website  Check Our New E-Mail Addy!! o 
                             . "Think Before You Click! We're Not Adding To "Letters"!
                            "                                                       o 
                            Invisible Spacer 4x4                  Invisible Spacer 4x4


                             ┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
                             │ Positive Atheism was one of the very early Atheist  │
                             │Web Sites to reach national status.  Cliff Walker    │
                             │created and maintained it through years of illness.  │
                             │He passed on in the summer of 2013.  We offer his    │
                             │site as he last edited it.     Alan Levin, of the    │
                             │Humanists.net Project.                               │
                             │                                                     │
                             └─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

     

    Since September, 1995: Serving People with No Reason to BelievePositive
  Atheism: Discussing the history, ethics, and philosophy of atheism promotes
                  liberty, responsibility, and peace of mind.

                   Epicurus Graphic Rule Center OutOnePixel

                   Epicurus Graphic Rule Center OutOnePixel

Positive Atheism Magazine (PAM)

Site Overview


                          The Philosophy of Positive Atheism || Donations Help Us Stay
                          OnLine
                          Monthly Column || About this Magazine || Print Edition Back Issues
                          Exclusive!  Recovery Watch  ||  Atheist Centre, Vijayawada, India
                          Now Available Online: This is True a Column by Randy Cassingham

                          Letters   ||   What's New?   ||   Forums   ||   Letter Guidelines
                          Join Our E-Mail List  (Currently Dormant)    ||    Write To Us
                          Letters!!  Do Atheists Celebrate Religious Holidays?  Kayla
                          New!  Situation Normalized: Atheism Fades to Unimportance Mark
                          The End of a Tunnel of Light || 
                          Gay Marriage is Freedom from Religion
                          The Value of Truthfulness || 
                          Does Truthfulness Follow from Atheism?
                          Plus: Blaise Pascal, Las Vegas, and Chinook Winds by Jerry
                          Billings
                          Tell Your De-Conversion Story;     Newest De-Conversion Stories

                          Big List of Quotations  ||  No Frames  ||  Alphabetical
                          Frames Index
                          Washington; Adams; Jefferson; Madison; Lincoln; US Grant; JFK;
                          Frances Wright; Emma Goldman; Helen Gardener; Margaret Knight
                          Mary Wollstonecraft; || Sandra Day O'Connor; Emily Dickinson;
                          Scary Quotes GW Bush; bin Laden; Joe McCarthy; Pat Robertson

                          FAQ Section  ||  Frames Version  ||  (Under Continual Evolution)
                          Revised! Introduction To Activistic Atheism  ||  (Frames Version)
                          Thoughts About Thinking; Logical Fallacies; Group-Think
                          Letter Guidelines (what you should know when writing to us)

                          Handbills: Print PDF Files and Distribute This Information!
                          o State-by-State Breakdown of Americans with No Religion
                          o Which Ten Commandments?  o National Bible Week Poster
                          o Political Figures Talk of Separation, Religious
                                     Freedom, and Religion (Extended List of Quotations)

                          Writings:  Historical  ||  Books  ||  Atheist Centre, India
                          FAQ  ||  Editorials  ||  Viewpoints ||  Articles ||  Features

                          News and Commentary
                          Atheism and Awareness  ||  The Politics of Religion
                          Coverage of the Inevitable Apocalypso  ||  Recovery Watch
                          US Supreme Court Rulings on Establishment, Free Exercise

                          President Bush Says 'No Freedom From Religion'?
                          Check Out: The Meaning of Freedom: Words by Maurice Cranston
                          Exclusive Report: President Bound by First Amendment Gene Garman
                          Check Out Our: Big Scary List of George W. Bush Quotations

                          Classic History  ||  Exclusive Book-Length Works
                          Thomas Jefferson  ||  Thomas Paine  ||  Joseph Lewis
                          Mark Twain  ||  Bertrand Russell  ||  H. L. Mencken
                          Madalyn Murray O'Hair  ||  Clarence Darrow ||  Voltaire
                          Richard Robinson's Hard-to-Find An Atheist's Values
                          William E. H. Lecky's 800-Page Rationalism in Europe

                          Joseph Lewis's Blockbuster: The Ten Commandments
                          Mark Twain's Hilarious Satire: Letters From the Earth
                          John E. Remsberg's Irrefutable Classic: The Christ
                          The Influential Freethinkers: Biographies and Tributes

                          Publisher Cliff Walker's Writings: Monthly Column, etc
                          Photos of Cliff: Childhood  ||  Adult  ||  Recent || X-Ray
                          Photos of Spot's Kittens (and most of the other cats, too)

                          Positive Atheism is a non-prophet organization!

                                                Visit our new Contact Page

                                                Contact Us

                                                (Thwart a spammer today! Type it yourself!)
  
Four Rules                                      o Positive·Atheism·(at)·G·Mail·(dot)·C·O·M o

Grab our Mini-Banner!                            Put the 'e' before the 'i' -- just like it
Mini-Banner: Positive Atheism's Big List of     sounds!
Quotations
Grab our Mini-Banner!                           We do not remove posted letters. Don't even
Four Rules                                      ask.
Rule
                                                We bounce eMail from the blueyonder.co.uk
                                                domain.

                                                Abuse and threats are not covered by any
                                                privacy rule.

Rule
                   And Think Before You Click!

                   A note to some theists who write to us:

                   We insist on the right to insist on truthfulness in all
                   discussions.

                    Positive Atheism is for atheists. Here we learn of the joys
                     and hardships of being truthful about our own religion. We
                   study our heritage as unbelievers, often finding that atheism
                    is no big deal. Still, there exists a class of meddlers who
                      seem unwilling to resist any opportunity to "tell those
                                     atheists a thing or two!"

                    Do you wish to hold us accountable for what we think, do, or
                    say? Then you'd best be certain that we actually thought it,
                   did it, or said it before launching your salvos against us. If
                   you lie to us or about us, we will call you on it, because we
                    insist on truthfulness. So please, think about what you say
                   first. If nothing else, consider the fact that we like to post
                     unreasonable and untruthful letters for comic relief. This
                    way, atheists who visit get a glimpse of what conversion to
                                    theism could be like for us.

                   If you think you have a truly original argument to present to
                     us, we will do our best to give it a fair look. Who knows?
                                  Everyone might learn something!

                       By the way, we've heard the rot they feed you in those
                    "Refuting Atheists" videos shown at seminars with names like
                   "Headlong Discipleship: Hook, Line, and Surrender," staged in
                    venues such as The Tambourine Bangin' Fundamentalist Revival
                                              Temple.

                    Some of that stuff we've seen time and time again, actually,
                   hundreds, or even thousands of times. "Apologetics" books and
                   videos are spun with an eye toward keeping you from wandering
                   astray from the fold; your leaders know better than to think 
                    any of it would affect a thinking atheist. The handful of us
                    who do convert to theism do so as the result of an emotional
                   fluctuation of some sort, not because of the cribbed arrogance
                               sent to this forum and others like it.

                     No Parrots!So lay off the Lee Strobel books, the C S Lewis
                     commentaries, the Philip Johnson videos, and those insipid
                    little comic tracts. This is not to disparage those authors
                    (except the last one): we just want you, as a writer to our
                   forum, to speak for yourself. Send your own original thoughts:
                                 do not parrot the ideas of others.

                   By submitting letters and other material, you agree to be held
                          to the stipulations in our game rules, got that?

                              Graphic Rule Search
                            Search Positive Atheism
       [                               ] [Google Search] 
Google     ( ) Search WWW (*) Search Positive Atheism
                                 
                              Graphic Rule Search
                              Graphic Rule Barker

I have something to say to the religionist who feels atheists never say
anything positive:

     You are an intelligent human being. Your life is valuable for its own
sake. You are not second-class in the universe, deriving meaning and purpose
from some other mind. You are not inherently evil--you are inherently human,
possessing the positive rational potential to help make this a world of
morality, peace and joy. Trust yourself.

     -Dan Barker, from his book, Losing Faith in Faith

                              Graphic Rule Barker
                             Graphic Rule Infidels
                               God is a Fraud!                            


                             Graphic Rule Infidels
                               Graphic Rule BOO
              STOP the takeover of the educational and community
            radio bandwidths by the essentially commercial (read:
              "greedy") Fundamentalist and Evangelical Christian
                                organizations!
              The Evangelical Christians are the only organized     
               religious groups actively usurping what was once
             strictly for the people, hijacking it unto their own
                      profit-making [S:needs:S] greeds.

                               Graphic Rule BOO                                
