Your Friendly Neighbourhood Atheist

The trials and tribulations of a free-thinker

Thursday, April 12, 2007

Christian divorce rates higher than that of atheists, agnostics: study

[403900386_]
Recently released statistics of the frequency of divorce in various religious
groups show some interesting findings. Notably, the incidence of divorce in
atheist and agnostic marriages was lower than any religious group studied.

Author Donald Hughes states, "In the churches, people have a superstitious view
that Christianity will keep them from divorce, but they are subject to the same
problems as everyone else, and they include a lack of relationship skills.
...Just being born again is not a rabbit's foot."

I find it interesting that for all the flak non-religious people take for
having lesser morals, it is the religious marriage that seems most likely to
fail.

"These findings confirm what I have been saying these last five years. Since
Atheist ethics are of a higher caliber than religious morals, it stands to
reason that our families would be dedicated more to each other than to some
invisible monitor in the sky. With Atheism, women and men are equally
responsible for a healthy marriage. There is no room in Atheist ethics for the
type of 'submissive' nonsense preached by Baptists and other Christian and/or
Jewish groups. Atheists reject, and rightly so, the primitive patriarchal
attitudes so prevalent in many religions with respect to marriage," Ron Barrier
of American Atheists said of the findings.

The most alarming quotation from the article? David Popenoe, claiming that the
findings must be wrong because "...Christians follow biblical models of the
family, making a bond that 'the secular world doesn't have...It just stands to
reason that the bond of religion is protective of marriage, and I believe it
is.'"

That's right, David. The statistics must be wrong because they don't line up
with your religious beliefs. Riiiiiight.
Posted by Brady at 12:36 AM 1 comment: Links to this post ●
Labels: News

Wednesday, April 11, 2007

Catholic mother responds to atheist son

embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/P8Aq00yJSxo)
Wow... I never knew that Christmas was all about getting presents from Jesus. I
also find it funny how the mom uses going to church every day as a punishment
or remedy for the problem of her son thinking for himself.
Posted by Brady at 6:11 PM No comments: Links to this post ●
Labels: Humour

Monday, April 9, 2007

Happy Zombie Jesus Day, Everyone!

[easter2]
Posted by Brady at 2:09 AM No comments: Links to this post ●
Labels: Humour

Sunday, April 8, 2007

New discoveries show areas of brain responsible for religion

[HumanBrain]CNN recently reported scientific discoveries that demonstrate
certain areas of the brain are responsible for human religion.

It's an interesting article. The author's attempt at witty humour leaves me a
little miffed, however:

"Today, scientific images can track our thoughts on God, but it would take a
long leap of faith to identify why we think of God in the first place."

I don't think it would be that much of a leap at all. To understand why we
believe in God (or in fact any religion), we need to ask ourselves not why we
believe in such things, but what survival value a brain that is prone to such
beliefs would have had in the wild?

The natural world is filled with all sorts of patterns, and organisms able to
perceive and respond well to those patterns would conceivably do better than
those which did not. Heavy rains leading to a flood; prolonged sun exposure
leading to burnt skin; loud, low growls signalling the approach of a
predator--all of these things are naturally occurring patterns that it would be
beneficial to recognize. Of course, it's not necessary to have conscious
pattern recognition. A species need only develop instinctual, genetic responses
to the patterns around them to gain an advantage.

It follows then, that our highly developed human brain should be quite
sophisticated indeed when it comes to recognizing patterns. It is our ability
to understand and process patterns that gives us our unique ability to simulate
and plan for the future. Unfortunately, when making decisions about patterns,
there's always a potential for error. Religion is just such an error--it's an
example of the human mind identifying a pattern that doesn't exist. Case in
point: creationism. Since everything we see around us has an ultimate cause or
creator (clay pots, houses, automobiles, computers, etc.), we assume that the
universe itself must have had a creator as well. Even if we don't spend much
time consciously considering it (as I would suggest is the case with most
religious people) the belief that there is some type of creating force behind
the universe almost "naturally" flows out of our everyday experience.

So, we believe in God because our brains are hard-wired to search for patterns
and to explain them, and "God" is a convenient label our brains can use to
explain the origin of the things around us that would seem to go otherwise
unexplained. I wouldn't be surprised if, in the future, we find that the areas
of the brain responsible for religious belief are also linked with instinctive
pattern recognition.
Posted by Brady at 9:08 PM No comments: Links to this post ●
Labels: News

Thursday, April 5, 2007

Did the Red Sea Part? No Evidence, Archaeologists Say

[parting]
The New York Times reported this week that it is unlikely that Moses ever
parted the Red Sea. In this article, Egyptian archaeologist Zahi Hawass leads
reporters through the remains of a recently discovered military fort in the
area, and states that there is no evidence of the Exodus, the 40 years of
wandering, or the parting of the sea. My favourite quote by the scientist:

"If they get upset, I don’t care. This is my career as an archaeologist. I
should tell them the truth. If the people are upset, that is not my problem.”


Posted by Brady at 4:50 PM No comments: Links to this post ●
Labels: News

Wednesday, April 4, 2007

A Scientist Who Believes

In this article on CNN, Dr. Francis Collins, a microbiologist and director of
the Human Genome Project, explains how he can be both a scientist and a
believer in the Christian God. He argues that science isn't able to answer
questions like "what is the meaning of life," or "what happens after we die?"
In searching for answers to these questions, Collins converted to Christianity.

Strangely enough though, Collins seems to refute his own argument in the
following quotation:
"Faith is reason plus revelation, and the revelation part requires one to think
with the spirit as well as with the mind. You have to hear the music, not just
read the notes on the page. Ultimately, a leap of faith is required."

Basically what Collins is saying, then, is that it is in fact not possible to
make a scientific, rational decision that the Christian God exists. Instead,
the decision must be made in the face of a complete lack of evidence (hence the
required "leap of faith"). The scientific method is concerned with the
observation of evidence, and faith is belief in spite of (or because of) a lack
of evidence. Otherwise it wouldn't be called faith. As we can see then, Collins
made an unscientific decision to convert to Christianity. He admits as much
himself.

In one of the comments that follows, Alan Goldstein says it best:

"As is typical of believers, Collins was looking for answers, and when he
didn't find them (or more likely didn't care for the answers he found), he
turned to superstition. For example, what is the meaning of life? Science would
say "Life has no meaning, other than the meaning we give to it." I think this
is a wonderful answer, and immensely preferable to, life exists because god was
bored. And that our sole purpose for existence is to please god enough, so that
we may enter heaven and sing his praises for all eternity."

It's really unfortunate that a man who holds such a prestigious position would
abandon the rational morals of his profession because he did not care for the
answers they provided, however stark and rigorous they may be. What a loss.

Oh well. To make you feel better, here's a graph showing who killed the largest
number of people in the Bible.


[god-v-sata]
Posted by Brady at 11:16 PM No comments: Links to this post ●
Labels: News

Tuesday, April 3, 2007

Why are Geeks Often Atheists?

A recent post on shuzak.com examines why a large percentage of the "geeks" who
frequent the Internet describe themselves as atheists. While it's not a
scientific study, it's thought-provoking nonetheless.
Posted by Brady at 7:37 PM No comments: Links to this post ●
Labels: Blogs
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
[gse_multipart15285]
●

Who am I?

Brady
    Brady is a Vancouver-based songwriter specializing in digital music
    production. With experience in a wide variety of musical styles and
    settings, he brings a creative and experienced talent to any project he is
    involved with.

View my complete profile
●

Posts by Subject

  • Blogs (1)
  • Books (1)
  • Humour (2)
  • Journal (2)
  • News (10)

●

All Posts

  • April (9)
  • March (7)

●

Links

  • NoGodBlog

●
The foolish reject what they see and not what they think; the wise reject what
they think and not what they see.
●
