  • About
  • Contact
  • Excerpts
  • Q&A
  • Articles
      □ Mumbai Attacks Could Be Just the Beginning…
      □ The Good Atheist
      □ Prostitution
      □ The Bully Cries Foul: Religion on the Ropes
      □ An Unapologetic Message to Islam in the Wake of the Mumbai Attacks
      □ Mumbai Attacks Could Be Just the Beginning…
      □ Want to understand how Nutbar Scientology really is? Ask Hubbard.
      □ Atheist Bus Ads
  • Get the Guide

The Heathens Guide.com

Not For Sheep

  • Home
  • Daily Blog
      □ News
      □ History Bits
      □ Odd History
      □ Welcome
  • Atheism
  • Eastern Religions
  • Western Religions
      □ Islam
      □ Christianity
      □ Judaism
  • Fringe Religions

Search : [                    ] [GO!]
Topics : [Select category  ]

Subscribe to Posts Subscribe to Comments

Mayan Apocalypse 12/21/12: Why we’re all going to die

Posted by admin on December 6, 2012 . Leave a Comment 

All over the world, 2012 preppers are busy buying up leftover Y2K rations and
getting ready for ‘the Big One’. Being the skeptic that I am, I should be
scoffing. OK, I am scoffing. But just a bit, and not for the reasons you might
think. You see, as nuts as most of these people are, I think they’re also
absolutely right. Our world really is going to hell in a hand-basket, and
sometime soon a whole heap of us are gonna die in all kinds of creative and
agonizing ways.

Maybe all of us.

The main difference between me and the nutbars is that I (like most folks)
really don’t give a damn. Given a straight-up choice between saving the world
from impending peril or a three-bean cappuccino with a cute brunette, I’m
Starbucks bound.

People die. Sometimes its a lot of them all at once, sometimes it’s a solitary
suicide-bomber with a faulty Radio Shack trigger that picks up the neighbor’s
garage door opener. Either way, we all bite it sooner or later. But for those
who are sitting around waiting for ‘The Big One’, I have news for you: It’s
already happening, and there’s nothing mystic about it. It’s just Us, getting
together with Mother Nature to make sure we’re all as screwed as possible.
However, as we tend to gloss over the news of our demise, I want to take a
second to point out for the religious elite that we do not need a God to be
genuinely and profoundly screwed…

NUKES

Sure, we’ve all heard stories about suitcase nukes and Iranian nukes and North
Korean nukes, but these are old hat. Of the thousands of missing and
uncontrolled nukes in the world, the only one that really[NUKE] bothers me is
the 500 kiloton hydrogen bomb that somehow went missing this year (along with
the German Dolphin submarine that carried it). On May 2, 2012, the sub and nuke
avoided NSA, MI5, and British Royal Navy surveillance at the port of
Bemerhaven, Germany and escaped doing 7.5 knots. It was never seen or heard
from again. Dec. 21 may be the Mayan mayhem day, but I’d be a tad more worried
about New Year’s celebrations in Piccadilly or Times Square. No one steals a
nuke and sub without a plan to go with it.

ASTEROIDS

While there’s a bit of overlap here with the nutbars awaiting the planet
Nibiru, my asteroid-hitting-the-Earth concern has one thing going for it that
the preppers lack: An actual asteroid, named 2012 DA14. It was discovered just
this year, and NASA says it’s going to be the closest pass of an asteroid to
the Earth since they first started tracking these things. (They say it will
pass closer to the Earth than the TV satellites, about 14000 miles. To give you
perspective, the moon is 240,000 miles away.) This thing is more of a
city-killer than a planet killer, but fear not. All the best NASA
mathematicians have worked out the trajectory and say that it definitely,
absolutely, positively WILL NOT hit the Earth. Any one else remember the Mars
Climate Orbiter that crashed into the surface of Mars because a NASA
mathematician had done a simple miscalculation?

DISEASE

When my father was born, there were no antibiotics. As a result a lot of babies
born at the same time died in the first year of now-preventable diseases. If
they survived that, Death was waiting just down the line with a fresh dose of
polio and the Swine Flue. From 1920 to 1950 over 60,000 Canadian kids died from
one or the other of these diseases. Of course, that’s all behind us, right?

Well, Death is nothing if not patient. According to the World Health
Organization (and my very chatty doctor) the time of dead kids and mass disease
is nigh on us again. According to the WHO website: “About 440 000 new cases of
multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) emerge annually, causing at least 150
000 deaths”.

Ah TB… Gotta love the classics.

But in a global sense, diseases like these are the spectator’s sport. The real
thing… the kind of thing that’s likely to kick our ass… are stuff like
hemorrhagic fevers or even Spanish Flue. Both still exist today, and as they
get more resistant to our supply of antibiotics they’re going to become far
deadlier. Worse yet, international travel means that anyone anywhere who gets
one of the Big Diseases is likely to spread it internationally in a matter of
days. No containment, no effective treatments. Ya gotta love out modern world.

WATER

And last but not least on this short-list of real apocalypses: simple H2O. If
we live long enough, this is the one that’s going to get us. Simple and direct.
You do the math:
– Globally, 1.2 billion people live in areas with inadequate water supply.
– 1.6 billion live in areas where there is water, but they can’t afford to
drink it.
– As population increases, it’s estimated that water consumption will increase
by at least 40 percent in the next ten years.

In the USA, kids get killed on the street for their sneakers. Take a guess what
the world’s going to be like when the poor are fighting for water instead of
footwear.

AND LIFE GOES ON…

So there ya go: a few of the many things that are ready and waiting to kill a
whole slew of our population. (Forgot to mention brain parasites. But they’re
easy to forget once you have them,) All this, and no need for a god or a
prophesy. Just plain old logic and scientific inquiry. The nutbars are right;
we’re toast. The how and where remain to be seen, but given the sheer number of
things out there that are apt to [COFFEE]liquify your innards or eat our
brains, chances are one of them is going to hit fairly soon.

So what do we do about it? Move to the desert? Build a bunker? Make
solar-powered wind chimes out of rare-earth minerals?

Me? I’m going to do what modern humans always do in the face of almost-certain
death: I’m going to go to Starbucks and find that cute brunette. Then, like
many a human before me, I will do my best to enjoy life and chat her up until
that “almost-certain death” becomes “certain death”.

Only then will I put down my cappuccino long enough to wonder where all the
pustules came from. Chances are, it won’t be from some god’s vengeance.

 

Written by Wm. Hopper, author of
“The Heathen’s Guide to World Religions”

width=

Not for Sheep

Twitter del.icio.us Digg Facebook linked-in Yahoo Buzz StumbleUpon

Filed under Atheism, Daily Blog, Fringe Religions . Tagged with 12/21/12,
apocalypse, Atheism, atheist, Christmas, December 21, end of the world, Mayan,
religion, Sex and religion, sin

[slide-ads-8]

Twitter del.icio.us Digg Facebook linked-in Yahoo Buzz StumbleUpon

[slide-ads-7]

Twitter del.icio.us Digg Facebook linked-in Yahoo Buzz StumbleUpon

[slide-ads-6]

Twitter del.icio.us Digg Facebook linked-in Yahoo Buzz StumbleUpon

[slide-ads-5]

Twitter del.icio.us Digg Facebook linked-in Yahoo Buzz StumbleUpon

[slide-ads-4]

Twitter del.icio.us Digg Facebook linked-in Yahoo Buzz StumbleUpon

[slide-ads-3]

Twitter del.icio.us Digg Facebook linked-in Yahoo Buzz StumbleUpon

[slide-ads-2]

Twitter del.icio.us Digg Facebook linked-in Yahoo Buzz StumbleUpon

[slide-ads-1]

Twitter del.icio.us Digg Facebook linked-in Yahoo Buzz StumbleUpon

The Heathen’s Guide to World Religions


A Secular History of the ‘One True Faiths’



Not for sheep.

[Heathens-Guide-front-Cover] Author:       William Hopper
Not For Sheep.
                             Availability: In Stock

                             Ships From:   Eris Publications,
                                           Kingston, CA

                             Ships to:     World Wide

                             ISBN:         0-9731508-4-X

                             Size:         231 pages, 6″ x 9″
                                           (Full cover)

                             Price:        $16.66 USD (+S&H)


                             The Heathen’s Guide is an easy-to-read,
                             easy-to-access digest of the history of the
                             world’s religions. Sarcastic, fun, and
                             informative, “The Heathen’s Guide to World
                             Religions” is the book you need on-hand when
                             the true believers come calling.

                             
                             
                             PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online!
                             *

                                          $16.66 USD (+ S&H)



Twitter del.icio.us Digg Facebook linked-in Yahoo Buzz StumbleUpon

  • Reviews


    “Hopper represents the most lethal of organized religions many opponents: A
    curious, well-educated individual with a sharp wit.” 
                                             ~Queen’s University Journal Review
                           • Buy the 'Damned' Books!!!

    To get a copy of the high-quality, embossed edition direct from the author,
    click below:

                                  Not for Sheep.
                                     [thumb2]
                                   $16.66 (+S&H)
                  PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *

    ePub, Kindle, or mass-market paperback, available at:
                                [HeathenAd3][logos]


    For Italian-language version, click below:
                                   [religioni-]
                                       • 
                                          
                                  width= [logos]
        • If a god audibly spoke to you, what would you do?online survey
                                 • Recent Posts

               □ Mayan Apocalypse 12/21/12: Why we’re all going to die
                  □ The Origin and Invention of St. Valentine’s Day
                             □ Jim Jefferies On Religion
                               □ Shafia Honor Killings
                              □ A new Christian tactic?
                             □ God Says Kill Horny Women
                          □ Don’t Wish Me a Merry Christmas
                                  □ Amazon Atheist
                    □ An Atheists Open Letter to God’s Followers
                                 □ ‘No gay sex’ logo
                           □ Benetton Ad Pope Kissing Imam
                              □ Iran Will Get the Bomb
            □ Why men are NOT in trouble (But folks like Bill Bennet are)
                      □ Abortion: An Atheist’s Take (Part III)
         □ Muslims say crosses at Catholic University Violate “Human Rights”
                               • If God Were a Car

             embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/qahB7mYhLxs?fs=1&hl=en_GB)
                                       • 

                                   [linkffrf_3]
                             • Scientology is a scam

    I've always said that Scientology is a scam, but don't take my word on it.
       Here's an interview with the religion's founder, sci-fi author L. Ron
                                     Hubbard.
            embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/iBqEsi8VUBw&hl=en_US&fs=1&)
                                     • Meta

                                      □ Log in
                                    □ Entries RSS
                                   □ Comments RSS
                                   □ WordPress.org
                                       • 

Return to top of page

Heathensguide.com Copyright (C) 2016 William Hopper . All Rights Reserved

