  
RagingRev.com

  • Home
  • Contact Me
  • Advertise Here
  • Poems about Losing Faith
  • Book an Atheist Speaker in Georgia + Past Events
  • Wedding officiant in Georgia
  • About Me

White guy, unsure why everyone is so upset.

Is our society more easily offended?

November 13, 2015/1 Comment/in Uncategorized /by Matt Oxley

Over the last several years, actually going back into the 90’s, certain groups
have decried “Political Correctness” and what some call a culture of being
easily offended. If you happen to be one of my followers or friends on Facebook
you already know that I have a massive variety of people that come to my
personal page to engage in discussions about practically every hot topic
imaginable. My little corner of the internet is one of the few places, next to
4chan, where there is practically no censorship or filtering going on – I let
people reveal themselves for who they are and display even the most outrageous
points of view.  Doing so is really important to me as I value freedom of
speech and the safety of that space above all else, and I think that despite
not having hard-line rules the extremes tend to equal each other out so that
the middle can be more easily heard.

That said, if you spend much time on my personal Facebook page you are
guaranteed to get offended. If not by me, then by

The Rules of Engagement for my personal Facebook wall - posted recently.

The Rules of Engagement for my personal Facebook wall – posted recently.

some of my friends or followers, that’s one of those disclaimers I wish I had
the ability to put somewhere on the page,  – that I take the time to state
every now and again in some fashion for people that might be new to my virtual
forum (example included to the right.)

I honestly can’t think of many times where I’ve actually been offended in any
serious way. I might find certain views to be simply atrocious, but they don’t
offend me – I think the main reason for that is because I’ve been born into a
great deal of privilege and I’ve long recognized it – so I just don’t let
peoples words and beliefs get to me so much. Sometimes the things people say or
do will  prompt a response from me, but not because I’m offended or hurt,
because I think it’s important that we engage with bad ideas.

There are those that assert that society as a whole is more easily offended
than in years past, citing movements like #BlackLivesMatter, the push for safe
spaces on college campuses, and LGBT acceptance – movements which often use
social media to lash out those who wish to remain a part of the status quo. Are
these movements and these reactions evidence of a more easily offended society?

I don’t think so.

The segments of society who hold the most power have always tended toward a
prejudice against the “other”, which is why those you are most likely to hear
complaining about the “sensitivity of our times” are by and large white
straight males (on Fox News) – as it’s usually they who are saying things that
are most readily offensive or hurtful to people who are on the outskirts of
modern power structures.

We do, today, live in a society where you hear a lot more about offensiveness
though – so, what does that say about modern people and the changes that living
in a technologically smaller world (ie: a world made smaller by the advent of
technology which brings more people together) has wrought?

It says that we are a (somewhat) more caring society:

I know it seems like the opposite – and there are certainly times when the
opposite is true, but we are by and large heading toward a more humanistic
society who’s citizens care for the “other” and who consider with empathy the
effects of their words and actions.

If you think back to the 70’s and before, it was practically unthinkable for a
straight male to be an ally of the LGBTQ community unless that ally had
experienced some sort of discrimination on his own, today – however, we are
seeing more and more allies for every marginalized part of society today and
while some of those allies may be hopping on the bandwagon of popular morality,
the roots of this shift in thought are surely empathetic and if empathy is a
bandwagon people are jumping on that’s a better bandwagon than others I could
think of.

There are, of course, those who try their damnedest to prove me wrong here,
bent on the idea that privilege is non-existent or even OK – but I believe and
can see in my community and in the US that those people are becoming the louder
but more fringe voices rather than a rumbling cacophonous majority that agrees
in these old ways of thinking.

We have avenues to express anger that we didn’t have before:

It’s easy to forget, especially if you are around my age or younger (29 as of
this writing) the impact of the internet and social networks. I practically
grew up with some sort of connectivity to a world of online friends and
enemies.  With the advent of social media sites like Facebook and a generation
of people who are accustomed to sharing their frustrations online it is easier
than ever to express frustration and anger at some injustice or bigotry we
witness or experience in every day life and for that experience to become a
viral, mimetic cause du jour.

The nature of our social network beast makes it easier for people who wouldn’t
have been exposed to social justice issues any other way (many of us live in
very sheltered worlds, I am among those people) – and so it’s easier for us to
care about things that we know about because of this exposure.

The landscape of the world has changed so drastically because of the internet
that we often mistake those virtual interactions with real life interactions,
forgetting that people on the internet are often unfiltered caricatures of
themselves. While one generation of users may be well aware of the “keyboard
warrior” affect – another generation may not be, and while both express anger
in their own ways, one tends to believe that the others anger is the result of
over-pacification and coddling – the idea that their opponents are too easily
offended is almost always a hypocritical failure to view one’s very own
leanings toward offense when exposed to a litany of new ideas.

Whether it be by a trending hashtag or a photo that gets turned into a meme and
shared millions of times, we’ve got ways to express our anger at injustices
that didn’t exist just 15 years ago – and unbelievably those things can lead to
actual change. Public outcry via social media makes a difference in the world
and in when someone in an authority position does something immoral the outcry
can have them fired within days – rather than the weeks or months or never of
previous years.

The offended are simply more aware and more vocal:

I think it can only be considered a matter of privilege if you find yourself
inconvenienced by the outcry of a marginalized group, and the fact of the
matter is that people from all walks of life are fed up with privilege as the
status quo and are therefore more vocal about it than in years past.

It’s easy for a straight white male to complain about the constant tenor that
“things need to change” because to the straight white male that’s an idea that
means a loss of power, privilege, comfort, and often class and when you fail to
see your own privilege you’ll be far less likely to empathize with those who
aren’t benefiting from it or who are victims of some sort of neo-classism,
sexism, racism, or other -ism and yet this is the landscape of our country and
largely our world simply because the victims of old world mentalities are
waking up to their oppression and speaking out about it with less fear.

Are these people more victimized today than they were 10-50 years ago?
 Arguments can be made for and against. While the consciousness of the world is
slowly moving toward more equality there are those who are, in more extreme
ways, lashing out at communities of color, transgender people, the LGBT
community, and even the poor (who we often forget about when discussing this
sort of thing).  The most deadly mass murders against a racial group of the
last 75 years in the US happened this year, in 2015, in Charleston – so it’s
not difficult to see the extremists pushing against the broader narrative of
brotherhood and humanism.

The fact of the matter is simple:  When black people, women, or the LGBT
community react to something it’s easy to say “I don’t want to hear it, stop
making a big deal of of this” when you aren’t the victim of an institutional
bias – but these people are getting louder and they’ve got damn good reasons
for it, I recommend anyone and everyone of the aforementioned mentality to shut
up and listen to see if perhaps you can learn something.

Moralizing Political Correctness

I like to define Political Correctness as follows:  The ability to communicate
with empathy for the marginalized.

There are those that want to compare Political Correctness to a police state or
some invention of politicians, as if having a society of people who want to
avoid offending their fellow citizen is a bad thing. Political Correctness,
even if many don’t see it this way, is an attempt to neutralize harsh language
and action toward marginalized groups, I’m not sure how that can be considered
a bad thing unless of course you have a problem with empathetic behaviors.

Being more PC has certainly become a little more extreme, with the advent of
social media (as previously discussed) using the wrong term can land one in a
media firestorm and if you don’t know how to properly apologize properly for a
failure to communicate with empathy you can easily be dismissed forever.

I think it’s clear that those who stand against a more politically correct
world are in the wrong as it’s truly a more moral world they are standing
against – a world where people have to hear epithets and cat calls walking down
the street rather than our continual progression toward a world where that
doesn’t happen and where those behaviors become overwhelmingly unacceptable
social abnormalities. What many don’t know is that this memetic is how things
change – societal morality slowly changes because society stops being OK with
the way things are and polices those who continue operating with the same old
and tired ways of thinking that have allowed people to be so marginalized for
so long.

Offended?

I’m not the type of guy that cares a whole lot when certain groups are offended
by something I say. When others are offended I agonize over it. You probably
know which category you belong in by your reaction to most of my writing.

One day, the outcry from those who are just now getting the opportunity and
wherewithal to stand up to microaggressions won’t be necessary – we won’t have
to talk about who’s offended and by what, we’ll just live in a better society
and it will be because people were willing to say “You know what, your
viewpoint is shitty” and make a bigger deal of it than some might think is
necessary.  If you happen to be the type of person that makes a lot of social
faux pas, now is the time to brush up on your apology skills and your ability
to be sincere because you will be called on it one day and hopefully you’ll use
it as an opportunity to learn something about yourself and those whom you’ve
transgressed against. I hope you will, and I hope we’ll all learn to extend a
little grace to those that do screw this up.

 

Ahmed Mohamed being arrested

Dawkins a Dick around Ahmed’s Clock

September 22, 2015/0 Comments/in Race, religion /by Matt Oxley

Late last week a young boy by the name of Ahmed Mohammed brought a clock/
suitcase hybrid into his school to show off to his teacher at his Texas school.
He was arrested and interrogated by police for over an hour without the
presence of a lawyer or his parents because his teacher felt “intimidated” as
the clock resembled that of a suitcase bomb in her eyes – not considering the
fact that a 14 year old has no frame of reference for such a thing, nor the
very apparent lack of C4.

That’s the old news.

Richard Dawkins, living up to his name and reputation of late, along with a few
bloggers over at Skepchick (who I won’t bother to name or link to) have a beef
with Mohammed:

The 14 year old child used the word “invention” for his contraption while being
placed in front of national TV cameras, and it’s got them in an uproar.

What Ahmed did and didn’t do

A homemade clock made by Ahmed Mohamed, 14, is seen in an undated picture
    released by the Irving Texas Police Department September 16, 2015. Mohamed
    was taken away from school in handcuffs after he brought the clock to his
    Dallas-area school this week and the staff mistook it for a bomb, police
    said on Wednesday. REUTERS/Irving Texas Police Department/Handout via
    Reuters

    Irving Texas Police Department

    A homemade clock made by Ahmed Mohamed, 14, is seen in an undated picture
    released by the Irving Texas Police Department September 16, 2015. Mohamed
    was taken away from school in handcuffs after he brought the clock to his
    Dallas-area school this week and the staff mistook it for a bomb, police
    said on Wednesday. REUTERS/Irving Texas Police Department/Handout via
    Reuters 

Ahmed Mohammed didn’t invent a damn thing. Clearly. He took two things that
already existed – took one of them apart – and stuck it inside the other.
Ahmed’s clock is a clock + a suitcase.

What he did requires no special brilliance or insight into electronics and
fails to make him special. It is not indicative of genius and wouldn’t win the
science fair even if EVERYONE else in the school made those lame volcanoes.

Ahmed misspoke, and perhaps he’s not mature enough to know the difference
between inventing and …er…Frankenstein-ing things together and a Professor
Emeritus at Oxford with a PhD in biology took the time to correct him on
twitter so that his name could be part of the media frenzy taking place over
this, even going so far as to suggest a conspiracy on Ahmed’s part:

    “…Ahmed didn’t build a clock. He simply took one out of its casing. Did he
    deliberately want to be suspected of making a bomb? Did he want to be
    arrested, to be seen as a victim of ‘Islamophobia’?”

    ““He disassembled & reassembled a clock (which is fine) & then claimed it
    was his ‘invention’ (which is fraud)” and asserted, “True, Johnny Smith
    would not have been arrested & Ahmed should NOT have been. But his motives
    remain questionable.”

Well, I don’t have  a PhD, and here I am stating the clearly obvious as well
minus any insanity. Can I have a brownie now? Where’s my book deal?  Oh,
there’s more to the story?
You mean we’re focusing on the wrong thing?

Ahmed Mohammed and Me

Here I am a 29 year old IT professional writing about a young man that took
apart a clock, who – like me – started taking things apart at a young age out
of a sense of curiosity for how they work.  I started disassembling things as
soon as I could hold a screwdriver and growing up there probably wasn’t a piece
of electronic equipment or complex mechanics that I hadn’t taken apart and put
back together hoping it worked by the time mom got home from work.

That’s the beautiful spark of curiosity that got kids like me interested in a
lifelong passion, and like Ahmed there were things that I slammed together and
called inventions – one – an alarm clock with speakers that I replaced with
bigger, louder speakers.  Is that anything special?  Nope.  But it was cool to
me, and when I was 14 it was something I did that no one else had done, not to
mention that I had the loudest alarm clock for miles.

This is the birth of the tinkerer, and that’s really cool to see from my
perspective. I love seeing kids tear crap apart and put it back together. I
don’t expect every kid to know how to use a breadboard and soldering iron at
14, because we all start somewhere – and THIS is where we start, and sometimes
we call the crap we do an invention because we aren’t adults and because we
haven’t been tainted by the trouble of filing a patent yet.

My curiosity and love for tinkering never got me arrested though.

That’s the point, that’s why media attention to this is OK, not because he
called his traveling clock an invention or because the President had an invite
to the White House for him. That’s also why it’s OK for tech companies to jump
on the bandwagon of free advertising and send the kid all kinds of free stuff
that may foster this interest, because a kid did something he thought was cool
and because of his skin color and last name he was arrested for it – detained
without warrant – and questioned, at 14, without the presence of his parents or
a lawyer. Ahmed’s clock is supposed to be his introduction to my world, instead
it was a crash course in Islamophobia and racial profiling.

Dawkins – aka white privilege personified, is meanwhile convinced that Ahmed
Mohammed was an inside job.

Can we stop taking him seriously now, once and for all?

Bottle

Introducing Southern Discomfort

September 14, 2015/0 Comments/in Politics, Race, religion /by Matt Oxley

The past couple of months I’ve been working with my friend Jordy on a new
Podcast project called Southern Discomfort and after quite a lot of work we
have our first episode up.  This, of course, is a growing process – but I’m
pretty damn proud of it and I think that if you like what I do here you’ll
appreciate the podcast.  You can subscribe via RSS here.

 

So, check it out please!

 

    Welcome to Episode 1 of the Southern Discomfort Show – in this show we
    introduce the show, ourselves and our religious and political backgrounds,
    plus we prove how nerdy we are. In addition to all that we get into a long
    talk about same sex relationships, how your grandpappy’s idea of “race
    mixing” was probably wrong and why Christians aren’t actually being
    persecuted here in the USA.

    PLUS  we talk about Black Lives Matter and whether or not that means that
    police are all terrible people.

     

    Visit us on Facebook!

    Follow us on Twitter!

    Contribute on Patreon!

    Or on GoFundMe

    Direct Download

ashley-madison

The Pastors on Ashley Madison

September 9, 2015/0 Comments/in Uncategorized /by Matt Oxley

If you’ve been living under a rock then you may not know that the popular
infidelity site known as Ashley Madison was recently hacked by a group of
moralist hackers with the intention of exposing those who were using the site
to find people to have affairs with.   So far over 400 of the exposed have been
Christian pastors on Ashley Madison – many with paid accounts (paid accounts
allow a person to send messages to others).

This news comes as no surprise to any of us, Christian and unbeliever alike –
we all expect hypocrisy from the Christian elite. Josh Duggar – stanchion of
fundamentalist morality, vitriolic anti-lgbt hate, and former spokesman for the
Family Research Council had multiple accounts, affairs, and participated in
both prostitution and had a past littered with child molestation cover-ups is a
shining example of what that hypocrisy looks like in one of it’s most dangerous
and vile forms. This post isn’t about Josh Duggar though, it’s about better
people.

We know that Christianity is full of hypocrites. Christians know it. I know it.
This is reality.

 

How then should we respond?

 

I, obviously, am not in the position to prescribe to my atheist friends the
best approach for this but I do think I have a Humanist approach and I think
that’s how we should look at this whole thing. I know many of you are reveling
in this revelation as if it’s some beautiful day, “we’ve finally exposed the
Christians!”  But I don’t think that’s a fair assessment, I don’t think that
Christianity needed any more exposure than it already had and I don’t revel in
the fact that hundreds of men were deceptive to their wives and congregations.
I can’t find joy in that, I can’t find joy in seeing people who want to be one
thing fail at that thing and be altogether another. I think that’s what these
pastors represent in large part is a desire to earn god’s favor and an utter
inability to do so. They represent the futility of Christianity, and the pain
of it’s failure.

This is not a good time for these men, many of whom have spit fire from their
pulpits about what marriage is and isn’t. I’m saddened for the pain they and
their families will endure because it isn’t so unlike the pain they’ve been in
large part responsible for among the LGBT community for decades and it is
grievous. They will be judged, hated, mocked, and invalidated – and that’s not
good for anyone.

On August 24th, 2015, John Gibson, a 56-year-old pastor who taught at the New
Orleans Baptist Theological Seminary was found dead by his own hand. He was
exposed in the Ashley Madison hack and his suicide note contained a great deal
of shame and remorse.

I don’t know if Gibson was a bigot, I don’t know if he was the sort of man to
preach hate and condemnation or if he truly believed in grace and lived his
life in a way that made that evident. I cannot know and I don’t care – but I do
know that he was a human being with a life and a family and that he experienced
the depths of depression to the point that he was willing to take his own life.
 As one who has been there, as one who has held a gun in his mouth pleading for
the end – I don’t think anyone deserves that. I’m therefore, saddened, deeply.

We cannot be happy that these men have been exposed. That mankind is likely to
pursue sexual urges is no surprise, that pastors are humans is no surprise.

We cannot be happy that Josh Duggar has a trail of victims in his wake,
including his poor brainwashed wife Anna and 3 of his sisters.

We cannot be happy that a man killed himself and left his family to pick up the
pieces, either because he didn’t know how to handle the pressure of guilt and
exposure or because he didn’t feel like he would receive love and grace from
the church.

This is a time for Christianity to come to terms with the reality that it is
not the shining white tower it so often portrays itself as; in the wake of the
exposure of these pastors on Ashley Madison and of bigots like Kim Davis the
church has an opportunity to self examine and to recognize that the perfection
 is a guise for inadequate people who are failing to reach the standards they
use their pulpits to preach about. This is an opportunity for the Church to
show grace to those inside it’s walls, and maybe apply that lesson to those
outside – where it has so often failed.

So, I’m asking for us not to revel in the pain of others – simply. Let’s be
better than that.

 

 

 

Honkie flag

Dear Honkie,

June 23, 2015/0 Comments/in Civil Rights, Politics, Race /by Matt Oxley

A letter to crackers, from a cracker.

That’s right. I started this post with a pejorative word for white people in
hopes that it would get your attention and that it might mean that you’d read
it. Unfortunately, my recent experience with my fellow Caucasians has been
that — once threatened or humiliated in the slightest by the chance of an
inconvenience or disruption of the status quo all willingness to pursue an
intelligent discourse is immediately shut down, so please — don’t shut down.
Keep reading, listen and receive the words one of your own has to say about
this race thing.

A while back, during yet another tragic event that took the life of an innocent
African American — I wrote a piece about recognizing my own white privilege and
a lot of you were…well…livid about it.

The comments on Facebook that resulted from that post were incredible, and were
evidence that very few were interested in the point I was trying to make but
were instead interested in defending the idea that they — in all their
whiteness — worked to get where they are, and that nothing has ever been handed
to them.

I guess somewhere about halfway through the first comment I started reading
through the lines of “I worked for everything I have” and began understanding
it to mean “unlike the welfare queens that have never worked a day” — let’s be
honest, that’s what you mean when you can’t acknowledge that life is even the
slightest bit easier for you as a white person and want to put your hardships
on display.

A lot of of grew up poor, I sure as hell did — and I work incessantly to make
sure I’m not poor the rest of my life.

Still, being white is making that process — and has made my life, just a little
bit easier for me than for my black counterparts.

In all this, it’s also been made clear that my marshmallow friends feel like
they are being told to feel guilty for being white. There is, of course,
nothing in the post I wrote previously that should indicate that I feel that
way — and of all the articles and opinion pieces I’ve read from authors
(regardless of their ethnicity) it’s become clear to me that almost no one,
save a few extremists, wants you to feel guilty for being born white. You don’t
even have to feel guilty if your great-great-great grand-pappy was a racist
slave owner, just — maybe — instead of feeling guilty you could say, “I could
see how 450 years of slavery and oppression might put the balance of power in
my court and in the court of people that look like me and make life more
difficult for black people.”

Acknowledging that truth goes a long way in the black community, in fact — it
goes a hell of a lot farther than having a black best friend that no one has
ever met and you don’t even have to feel bad about it any more than you feel
bad about water being wet. Some things just are, and you were born white while
other people weren’t. There’s no bad guy in that scenario.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

“So, you are telling me that I don’t have to feel bad about systematic racism
that has been unfair to an entire culture of people?”

That’s a great question Honkie, I’m glad you asked.

Look, I know — You didn’t own slaves, your family has always been poor white
trash and you never had anything to do with slavery or any sort of oppression
of black people at all. Slavery, racism, Jim Crow laws, the KKK , etc. ,
etc. — those are all things that you had nothing to do with and that no one
wants to pin on you. You benefit from being white. That’s it.

So.

No, you don’t have to feel bad about it at all, but I suspect that once you’ve
acknowledged that this experience is a real one for you (privilege) and your
black counterparts (prejudice) that you’ll automagically feel bad. I have a
feeling that you’ll just feel icky, like I do, for being part of a society that
allows that to happen — and that’s not guilt, that’s something much stronger
than guilt and more powerful for introducing someone to the desire to see a
change.

Empathy.

That’s what you guys are afraid of too, at least — that’s what I think it is
that you are afraid of. You are afraid that you’ll feel bad for someone who has
it worse than you, and that you’ll have to acknowledge that your life isn’t as
miserable as you want to pretend it is. You’ll be forced to give a shit, and
that’s scary because you aren’t familiar with the lives of these other people
and because you’ve been led to believe that they’ve brought it upon themselves
because all you really know about black people is a caricature of extremes.

Empathy would mean that you’d have to look at a black man, woman, or child just
like you look at a white man, woman, or child — rather than with the biases
we’ve been raised with. It means you have to acknowledge that sometimes people
end up in situations that aren’t their fault, and sometimes it’s incredibly
difficult to dig yourself out, furthermore that sometimes it’s just impossible
to get ahead when you start out so behind.

Empathy doesn’t mean guilt, but it does mean that you want things to be better
for someone else. Even if you don’t know how to make that happen, it’s sure as
hell a good place to start.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

On that flag.

I’m as white and Southern as the day is long, and I’m proud of it too.

I’m proud of the way we generally treat one another around here; we nod in
acknowledgement of nearly every person that passes our way, we hold doors open
for the people behind us at restaurants, we eat the meat we kill (I’m not a
hunter, but if you don’t eat the meat you kill people look down on you, and
they should), and we tend to be independent — but when tragedy strikes a family
you wouldn’t know it because we make sure they don’t go without. That’s, to me,
my heritage as a Southerner.

For some people — maybe you, that heritage proudly includes a historical
connection to the “War of Northern Aggression” because someone in your family
fought and died to defend an ideal that, like most that die in war today,
doesn’t really protect his interests as much as it protects the wealthy and
disenfranchises the poor.

You, like most, are simply proud of that background and want to pretend like
slavery wasn’t the root purpose of the war and you may even believe that to be
true because you’ve been taught it by historical revisionists your whole life.
That’s what I was told, and it’s bullshit.

What all that pride means for you war half-historians is proudly displaying the
Confederate Battle Flag of Virginia in one of the many popular iterations on
your person, on your unreasonably large truck, or in front of your home. I see
at least 20 a day. The one I hate most though is displayed on a tiny plot of
land in front of the county courthouse where I live, mocking those who it pains
every time they pass by.

That flag, all the muck aside — is a symbol of white supremacy and control.
It’s a symbol of preserving one races’ power over another, of ripping families
apart, and of all the labor that provided free wealth for aristocratic Southern
families who needed to keep the status quo going in order to continue building
wealth in the ways that they were. That’s why the KKK used it as their banner
in the 50’s and why other skinhead organizations use it today. Even if it has
been kidnapped from it’s original purpose, and it hasn’t, it’s time to relegate
it to history and to extremists who hurt people.

In a part of the country built on the labor of scarred black backs, that flag
is a symbol of gloriously returning to those days.

If you can be proud of that part of our heritage you’ve got a stronger stomach
than I. I’m not, I can’t be. I can’t ask black people to pass by it every day
at government buildings when I know their taxes pay for it too. If you must
display it on your property, by all means — but now would be a good time to
revisit that part about empathy a few paragraphs above.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

And while we’re at it….

So, you’ve folded up ole Dixie and recognized that maybe some folks do have it
harder than you based solely on the circumstances of their parentage all in the
course of a single post…shit…I’m doing pretty damn good, what else can I get
your pasty white behind to do?

I’ll end this monologue with the Good Ole’ Boy’s by telling you how I try to
move my dialogue with the black community, a community that I know I’m not a
part of — but that I care about:

Don’t pretend to be colorblind, that doesn’t mean anything. Recognize,
appreciate, and celebrate our differences all while loving the things that
unify us. Saying, “I don’t see color” is to rip that part of someone’s identity
away from them when instead we should be saying, “I see beauty and history in
your color”.

Race is real, it’s been part of the historical narrative of this country and
the world ever since we started forming tribes around language and skin-tone.
We don’t have to pretend like race doesn’t exist or even be ashamed of the race
we share, we can acknowledge race without placing the people who’s race differs
from ours in a subclass or fearing them.

Just treat people like people ya peckerwoods.

Sincerely,

Your Honkie Neighbor

Franklin Graham asks us Where Would Jesus Bank?

Where Would Jesus Bank | Why Franklin Graham doesn’t understand Jesus

June 10, 2015/0 Comments/in Christianity, Civil Rights, LGBT /by Matt Oxley

The Story

Franklin Graham – who rode the coat tails of his famous preacher daddy Billy
Graham into Christian fame as the head of Billy Graham Evangelistic
Association ever since the elder fell ill, recently announced that the ministry
and churches associated with BGM would be pulling all accounts from Wells Fargo
(and boycotting Tiffany & Co.) .  Why?

This ad:

(Warning, grab a tissue)

Read more →

Is Christianity Dying?

Is Christianity Dying?

May 18, 2015/6 Comments/in Atheism, Christianity /by Matt Oxley

Is Christianity Dying? – Russell D Moore asks rhetorically in an article sent
to me by a friend who serves in the ministry, wanting my commentary or insight
as Dr. Moore explores the results of the latest Pew Religious Landscape study
and what those results mean for the Christian church.

Dr. Moore and others would have you believe that a 6.8% increase in people who
don’t identify with any religious group and a combined decrease of people
claiming affiliation with Christianity, between mainline and evangelical
Protestants plus their Catholic counterparts, of 7.4% is largely due to atheism
being in vogue enough for the people that have long sat in the pews without
actually maintaining religious belief has given them license to speak up about
their lack of faith…as if answering an anonymous poll is risque.

Read more →

broken-self

Unbreaking the Broken Self (pt 1)

April 14, 2015/1 Comment/in Atheism, Christianity, Embracing Doubt /by Matt
Oxley

 

On my way home to work last night I was listening to fellow Southern apostate 
Neil Carter’s guest appearance on The Humanist Hour and I heard him talk about
 being less judgmental toward other people since leaving the faith and diving
into humanism and atheism.  After that he talked about being less judgmental
toward himself, something many who have never been Christians will actually
understand – because they’ll lack the context for understanding it. Most
atheist activists understand how Christianity and religion in general harm
those outside it’s walls – but because so few have a perspective on Christian
philosophy  as devoted insiders they’ll struggle to understand how it’s
doctrines lead to a broken self.

 

How the children of Christianity become broken.

I was six years old when I first learned to hate something about myself.

At six years old I had already attended three separate churches, exposing me to
different types of preaching, but the one I had attended the longest at the
time was a fairly small Pentecostal church in the town of Chester, Georgia.
It’s the church where I was “saved” – which meant that someone had convinced me
that I was a sinner and that I needed to believe in Jesus in order to be saved
from the punishment I so rightly deserved.

This doctrine of depravity, which teaches that all human beings are born into
sin as a result of the fall of Adam in the Garden of Eden, permeates all major
denominations of Christianity in one form or another. It is a foundational and
cardinal doctrine of the Christian faith as a prerequisite need for the
sacrifice of Jesus as an atonement for mankind’s sins.

Jesus had to die because of me.

Believing that I, singularly or as a part of the human collective, was
responsible for Jesus death on the cross was a heavy burden as I understood it.
It was something I received with sincere pangs of long enduring guilt and my
young mind didn’t know how to turn that guilt into a simple understanding of
the Gospel message – it had to be, and demands to be a Gospel that destroys the
self.

A Broken Self Image

As a child that grew up in an unrelenting culture of fear based preaching and
sermons focused on how depraved humanity inherently was I was never able to
find much self worth at a young age. All of my value was stored up in Heaven
and in the refuge of Jesus’ love for me as displayed by his death, for me.
Those of us who grow up believing in this way have a difficult time seeing past
our own flaws to find a decent human being – every sin is picked apart and over
analyzed, we beat ourselves up over every aspect of our lives that doesn’t
align with what we believe – and because what we believe as our goal is so
incredibly in-acheivable there’s an awful lot of self deprecation that happens.

By the time I was 13 I had no recognizable self-esteem.

All I knew how to do at such a young age was hate the things that characterized
normal and natural adolescence. It was my belief that those things separated me
from God and separation from God was separation from the only consistent and
worthy part of my life. There’s nothing healthy and nothing good about growing
up with those ideas in your head, for those lucky enough to escape that sort of
religion; I envy you.

Proof-texting our inadequacy

Growing up fundamentalist meant that finding the answers to practically any
question began and ended with a piece of scripture. It was an ignorant belief,
sure – but one held dear and practiced on a nearly daily basis for me – and I
was not only able to remember how the pastors, past abusers (which is a
different story for a different time), and other adults had drilled into me the
fact that I was a sinner – I was able to “prove” it against the Biblical
standard of truth.

Romans 3:23 told us that each and every individual was a sinner that had fallen
short of God’s glory.

Psalms 51:5 tells us that we are born in sin.

Mark 7:21 tells us that men’s hearts are full of evil thoughts and even murder.

Jeremiah 17:9 tells us that our hearts are deceitful and sick.

Ecclesiastes 7:20 tells us that there are no righteous men on all of the earth,
there are none who live without sinning.

Titus 1: 15-16 tells us that those professing to know god often deny him in
their disobedience. That purity is witness only to pure acts.

Galatians 5:21 says that if we do as the flesh desires (sin) we will not
inherit God’s kingdom.  Verse 24 says that we must crucify our flesh in order
to belong to Christ.

If you believe the words in this book to be true then it’s hard not to come to
the conclusion that you are born as filthy rags that must be washed clean – and
that you must continually fight against all the evil desires you hold.

It’s no wonder the people who leave this faith often struggle with feelings of
inadequacy for years after the fact, suffer nightmares of Hell, and find it
difficult to adjust to the idea that – in fact, they aren’t quite as bad as
they’ve been conditioned to believe.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

 

 

In my next post I’m going to talk about overcoming the psychological effects of
the broken self, how I’ve managed to feel whole again after leaving the
Christian faith and the doctrine of depravity – and why I believe society could
improve wholly by rejecting this idea outright.  Please, share this post on
social media if you’ve found something of value in it.

 

Source: http://all-len-all.com/
duck-dynasty-star-let-everyone-at-cpac-know-stds-are-the-revenge-of-the-hippies-video
/

The Phil Robertson Rape Fantasy

March 25, 2015/1 Comment/in Atheism, Politics /by Matt Oxley

Phil Robertson, patriarch of the Robertson clan of Duck Dynasty fame, is a
diamond of the neoconservative right wing’s eye; he’s independently wealthy,
loves to shoot guns, and believes that America is a Christian nation – and if
you don’t like that you should get the hell out. Recently, when Phil Robertson
was speaking at the Vero beach Prayer Breakfast, he shared – in Pentecostal
pulpit style – what I’m calling the Phil Robertson Rape Fantasy, complete with
murder and a beheading.

I’m going to attempt to break down Robertson’s insanity into chunks  and
analyze what I think he’s really trying to say – right after I share this
disturbing audio.

Note: This is disturbing stuff, not for the faint of heart or easily offended.
Don’t listen if you don’t want to hear about murder, rape, and decapitation
spoken in one of the most hateful tones possible.

Read more →

Is Christianity Dying?

Why this generation is really leaving Christianity

February 11, 2015/10 Comments/in Atheism, Christianity, Dear Church, Doubt,
religion /by Matt Oxley

Christians on social media sites like Facebook and Twitter have been sharing a
deluge of recent articles from “hip pastors” about how young people are leaving
the church and leaving Christianity. Each of these articles posit a number of
reasons why they think this diaspora is occurring, and I’m sure there’s a
nugget of truth in each of them – but the one thing I’ve noticed among the
articles I’ve read is that they lack any real experience in the matter, and
none of them seem to be asking the people who are leaving Christianity why it
is that they are doing so.

I’m a real life apostate who left the church and eventually the faith and some
might say I know more about why people actually do leave as opposed to some
pastor who’s trying to sell a book, but no one is knocking on my door to ask me
or any of my apostate cohorts – and nearly every time I try to inject some
experience into the conversation these believers are having about us I’m met
with negative remarks and accusations about the likelihood that I’m possibly
attempting to quell some hidden belief in god with a rage against him.

So, I’ll do what others on the inside have failed to do – I’ll give the
outsiders view of why we are becoming outsiders of the church and Christianity,
I’ll try to give my own reasons for leaving the church and leaving the faith
(two separate things), and I’ll try to do my best not to pigeonhole those that
have left by assuming the reasons I’m listing here are theirs – but I’m hoping
I’m going to be in the ball park for a lot of you based on my own experiences
and my interactions with the ex-christian community.

Read more →

Page 1 of 22123›>>
[] [                    ]
Followon TwitterSubscribeto RSS Feed

Follow RagingRev on Twitter

My Tweets

Pages

  • About Me
  • Advertise Here
  • Book an Atheist Speaker in Georgia + Past Events
  • Contact Me
  • Poems about Losing Faith
  • Wedding officiant in Georgia

Blogroll

  • Atheists and Christians
  • BleedZao
  • eStore
  • Ex-Christian.net
  • Pastor Guy
  • PhuckPolitics
  • Raging Retro Gamer
  • Savage Soto
  • The Big Picture
  • ZenBananas

Help us out!

Donate with Bitcoin!

12Vo2t37mGiQ4h4QiCuRGbJpsyYYxzs6JB Your Bitcoin Donation helps keep
RagingRev.com going. If you appreciate the content provided here and the work I
do, please make a small donation to say thanks. As always, thank you for your
support! Address: 12Vo2t37mGiQ4h4QiCuRGbJpsyYYxzs6JB

Interesting links

Here are some interesting links for you! Enjoy your stay :)

Pages

  • Advertise Here
  • Book an Atheist Speaker in Georgia + Past Events
  • Contact Me
  • Poems about Losing Faith
  • Wedding officiant in Georgia
  • About Me

Categories

  • Atheism
  • Book Reviews
  • Christianity
  • Civil Rights
  • Counter-apologetics
  • Dear Church
  • Doubt
  • Embracing Doubt
  • Letter to the Editor
  • LGBT
  • Mailbag
  • Politics
  • Race
  • religion
  • Science
  • Uncategorized

© Copyright - RagingRev.com and Matt Oxley 2014 - Enfold WordPress Theme by
Kriesi

  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • Youtube
  • Tumblr

Scroll to top
