bg image(1bus-blue-bkgr.gif)

                                                                     [swing]
                                                          

   ● Home                                               [1bus-blue-top]

   ● About Me                                                   
                                                           Namaste! 
   ● Pictures
                                         Long story short - this is where I get to
   ● Links                               show the world (or whoever sees this page) a
                                         little something about me. This site has (or
   ● Contact                             will have) a variety of topics and links. If
                                         you would like to be notified when this site
                                         is updated, please contact me. If you have
                                         Yahoo Messenger, IM me and say 'hi'...my nick
                                         is Dionysus_Personified. Oh, and please sign
Celebrate Darwin Day on Feb. 12!         my guestbook (located at the end of this
                                         page.) Enjoy!
Dreambook
Read my book!                              Read Albert Einstein's 1939 letter to FDR
Sign my book!                             expressing that an atomic bomb was feasible
                                            and the fear that Nazi Germany might be
                                               developing one. Page one Page two

                                               The Orginal Pledge of Allegiance
                                           I pledge allegiance to my flag and to the
                                           republic for which it stands, one nation,
                                           indivisible, with liberty and justice for
                                                           all. 1892

                                               The Atheists Pledge of Allegiance

                                         I Pledge Allegiance to the flag of the United
                                           States of America and to the Republic for
                                             which it stands, one Nation under an
                                          imaginary deity-figure that was created by
                                           ancient men and used to this very day to
                                         control the masses by preventing any sort of
                                             intelligent freethought and limiting
                                            freedoms, and belief in whom has caused
                                          countless atrocities throughout the world,
                                             and whose human son/savior-figure was
                                            actually borrowed from other religions,
                                           indivisible, with liberty and justice for
                                                             all.

                                               Some of my favorite quotes listed
                                                   alphabetically by author
                                                 A-D  E-G  H-K  L-O  P-S  T-Z
                                         Note: No attempt is made to quote every major
                                         author, authority, or humorist. No attempt is
                                          made to include a quote from every topic or
                                         epoch. It is merely a collection of the best
                                         things I've ever read or heard. If you think
                                         of a good one that isn't listed, let me know!
                                              If I like it, I'll put it on here!

                                            My special collection of Pat Robertson
                                                            quotes.

                                         some funny stuff:
                                         Read a humorous college admission essay
                                         Some funny theories
                                         Humor: property laws of a toddler
                                         What the professor really means
                                         Jesus's last words
                                         Why did the chicken cross the road?

                                         Want to see some of the meaningless 'awards'
                                                          I've 'won'?

                                                Take my short philosophy quiz!

                                             Read some frequently asked questions
                                                       regarding Atheism

                                          Want to know why dating Geeks is the best?

                                          Internet Explorer Users: Click here to add
                                              this page to your list of favorites

                                                        [1bus-blue-bot]

                                             [Atheist Quotation]
                                                                                  
Join
                                                                                      
Random- Previous- Next- List- Join
