[Select Language     ]   http://www.wikio.com Religion Bloglisting.net - The
internets fastest growing blog directory Judaism Blog Directory Blogs Directory
The Blog Directory BlogCatalog 

Atheist Jew in Germany

An atheist is one who disbelieves in the existence of God(s) or rejects
theisms. A Jew is a person born to a Jewish mother or who is a convert to
Judaism. To my knowledge, there is no Atheist Jewish organization in Germany.

Sunday, January 10, 2010

A Short History of the Jews of Munich, Germany

A Short History of the Jews of Munich [1]

[synago1]
In the second half of the 13th century Munich appears to have had a sizable
Jewish community; the Jews lived in their own quarter and possessed a
synagogue, a ritual bath, and a hospital.

On Oct. 12, 1285, in the wake of a blood libel, 180 Jews who had sought refuge
in the synagogue were burnt to death; the names of 68 of the victims are listed
in the Nuremberg Memorbuch, which dates from 1296.

The Jews obtained permission to rebuild the synagogue in 1287, but for several
centuries they remained few in number and suffered from various restrictions,
which from time to time were further exacerbated (e.g., in 1315 and 1347).

During the Black Death (1348/49) the community was again annihilated. However,
by 1369 there were Jews in the city once more, and in 1375 Duke Frederick of
Bavaria granted them (and the other Jews resident in Upper Bavaria) the
privilege of paying customs duties at the same rate as non-Jews.

The remission of debts owed to Jews ordained by Emperor Wenceslaus (1378–1400)
resulted in Munich Jews losing all their assets. They also suffered severely in
1413, when they were accused of desecration of the Host.

In 1416 the small community was granted some privileges, including permission
to acquire a lot for a cemetery; in 1432, when Duke Albert III sought to impose
a special tax on Munich Jews, the results were disappointing.

The clergy succeeded in having all the Jews of Upper Bavaria expelled in 1442,
and eight years later they were also driven out of Lower Bavaria, where they
had taken temporary refuge. Duke Albert gave the Munich synagogue (in the
modern Gruftgasse) to Johann Hartlieb, a physician, and it was subsequently
converted into a church.

For almost three centuries Jews were excluded from Munich and Bavaria (although
there may have been some periods when their residence was permitted, as may be
deduced from a renewal of the ban announced in a 1553 police ordinance).

During the Austrian occupation, Jews were readmitted to Bavaria and some of
them presumably found their way to Munich. At any rate, a new decree issued on
March 22, 1715, again ordered them to leave the country.

Some ten years later, a few Jews who had business dealings with the Bavarian
count began to settle in Munich, and by 1728 several Jews resided in the city.
In 1729 (or 1734) the Court Jew, Wolf Wertheimer, took up residence there and
was joined by his family in 1742; in 1750 all Court Jews and Jews in possession
of passes granting them freedom of movement were excepted from the general ban
on Jewish entry into the city. A community was formed by Jews who maintained
connections with the court. Of the 20 of them in 1750, there was only one woman
and a single child, which attests to the temporary and migratory nature of the
settlement.

Except for these Schutzjuden, the only Jews permitted to reside in the city
were those who had been commissioned as purveyors or who had made loans to the
state; all others were permitted to stay in the city for a short while only and
had to pay a substantial body tax (Leibzoll).

This situation continued for most of the 18th century, and it was not until
1794 and 1798 that the number of women and children in the city was
commensurate with the number of heads of families. In 1794 there were 153 Jews,
including 27 heads of families, 28 women, and 70 children; in 1798 the
respective figures were 35, 33, and 98. Up to the end of the 18th century,
Jewish women had to go to Kriegshaber to give birth to their children, and it
was not until 1816 that Jews were permitted to bury their dead in Munich rather
than transport them to Kriegshaber for burial.

At this time Munich Jews earned their livelihood as contractors for the army
and the royal mint (see mint-masters), merchants dealing in luxury wares and
livestock, moneylenders, and peddlers. Since there was no legal basis for their
residence in Munich, they did not have the right to practice their religion,
and every year they had to pay a special tax to enable them to observe Sukkot.

In 1805 a "Regulation for Munich Jewry" was issued (it formed the basis for the
Bavarian Judenmatrikel of 1813); among other privileges, the Jews were
permitted to inherit the right of domicile, to conduct services, and to reside
in all parts of the city.

During the Napoleonic Wars, the number of Jews was augmented by immigrants, and
by 1814 there were 451 Jews in the city. Two years later, the Jewish community
was formally organized. In the same year the community was given permission to
establish a cemetery, and in 1824 a permit was issued for the construction of a
synagogue (dedicated in 1827).

The first Jewish religious school was founded in 1815 and a private one in
1817. The community played a leading part in Bavarian Jewry's struggle for
civil rights, which lasted up to the founding of the German Reich (1871);
delegates of the Bavarian communities frequently met in Munich (1819, 1821) to
make common representations to the government. In the second half of the
century the community grew further (from 842 in 1848 to 4,144 in 1880, and
8,739 in 1900) as a result of increased immigration from the smaller
communities (especially in the last few decades of the 19th century).

By 1910, some 20% of Bavarian Jews lived in the capital (11,000). There was
also a steady immigration of Jews from Eastern Europe, mainly from Galicia,
which lasted up to World War I.

Jews were prominent in the cultural life of Munich, a center of German arts, in
the late 19th and 20th centuries, as well as being more equally represented in
Bavarian political affairs than in other German states. After World War I a
revolutionary government on the Soviet model was formed, in which Kurt Eisner,
Eugene Levine, and Gustav Landauer were prominent. It was routed by
counterrevolutionary forces, and a "White Terror" against Communists,
Socialists, and Jews was instigated.

In the postwar years of economic and political upheaval, Munich was a hotbed of
antisemitic activity and the cradle of the Nazi party; many Jews from Eastern
Europe were forced to leave Munich. Sporadic antisemitic outbursts
characterized the years until the Nazi seizure of power in 1933, when Reinhold
Heydrich and Heinrich Himmler took control of the police; the first
concentration camp, Dachau, was erected near Munich.

At the time, the community numbered 10,000 persons, including an independent
Orthodox community and many cultural, social, and charitable organizations.
Munich Jewry was subjected to particularly vicious and continuous acts of
desecration, discrimination, terror, and boycotts but responded with a Jewish
cultural and religious revival.

Between 1933 and May 15, 1938, some 3,574 Jews left Munich. On July 8, 1938,
the main synagogue was torn down on Hitler's express orders. During the
Kristallnacht, two synagogues were burnt down, 1,000 male Jews were arrested
and interned in Dachau, and one was murdered. The communal center was
completely ransacked.

During the war a total of 4,500 Jews were deported from Munich (3,000 of them
to Theresienstadt); only about 300 returned; 160 managed to outlive the war in
Munich. A new community was founded in 1945 by former concentration camp
inmates, refugees, displaced persons, and local Jews. In the following five
years, about 120,000 Jews, refugees, and displaced persons passed through
Munich on their way to Israel. In 1946 there were 2,800.

The community increased from 1,800 persons in 1952 to 3,522 in January 1970
(70% of Bavarian Jewry). In 1966 a Jewish elementary school was opened, the
second in Germany, but the postwar community was repeatedly troubled by acts of
desecration and vandalism (against synagogue and cemetery). In March 1970 the
Jewish home for the aged was burned down and seven people lost their lives.

During the Olympic games, which took place in Munich in 1972, Palestinian
terrorists took eleven Israeli sportsmen as hostages. All of them died.

The Jewish community numbered 4,050 in 1989, 5,000 in 1995, and 9,097 in 2004,
making it the second largest Jewish community in Germany. The increase is
explained by the immigration of Jews from the former Soviet Union.
Posted by atheistjewingermany@gmail.com at 6:23 PM 1 comments ●
Labels: Anti-Jewish laws, Antisemitism, Bavaria, Bavarian, Deutschland, German,
Germany, Jew, Jewish, Jews, Judaism, Juden, Judisch, München, Munich

Sunday, September 27, 2009

Odeonsplatz, Munich

Odeonsplatz and the Feldherrnhalle

The Munich Odeonsplatz is a large and beautiful square bordered by the
Feldherrnhalle (Field Marshal's Hall), the Italianesque Theatinerkirche and the
Hofgarten, a former court garden.

[01]
The Feldherrnhalle consists of three arches, with at the entrance two Bayern
lions. The building was designed in 1841 by Friedrich von Gärtner after the
Loggia dei Lanzi in Florence, Italy [1] on request of Ludwig I in honour of
Bayern generals.

On 2 August 1914, Adolf Hitler attended a rally at the Odeonsplatz to celebrate
the declaration of WWI.

[02]On 9 November 1923, police stopped Hitler's attempt to bring down the
Weimar Republic - the so-called Beer Hall Putsch [2] - at the Odeonsplatz. A
fierce skirmish with the police left 16 Nazis and 4 policemen dead. Hitler was
injured, captured shortly thereafter and sentenced to a prison term.

[03]When Hitler was in power, a memorial to the fallen putschists was erected
on the east side of the Feldherrnhalle, opposite the spot in the street where
the dead had fallen and the putsch had been halted. The memorial was guarded
perpetually by SS guards, and all who passed the memorial had to give the Nazi
salute.

[07]
[08]
 Each year special parades were held in Munich on November 9 for the
commemoration of Hitler's unsuccessful Putsch. On November 9, 1938, the Nazis
unleashed a wave of pogroms against Germany's Jews, known as Crystal Night or
the Night of Broken Glass [3].

[09]
[04]
[05]
[06]
Posted by atheistjewingermany@gmail.com at 7:07 PM 2 comments ●
Labels: Crystal Night, German, Germany, Jew, Jewish, Jews, Judaism, Juden,
Judisch, Kristallnacht, München, Munich, November Pogrom

Saturday, September 5, 2009

Jewish Ostracism in Germany

“In Russia, I was discriminated for being a Jew. In Germany, the Jewish
community does not let me become a member because my mother was not Jewish,”
Diana K., a Ukrainian immigrant to Berlin told European Jewish Press [1].
_
Over the last 15 years more than 200,000 Jews have immigrated to Germany from
the former Soviet Union (CIS).
_
Recent statistics compiled on behalf of the German government show that 205,905
Jews came from the CIS to Germany between 1991 and 2005. The largest influx of
arrived between 1995 and 2004, when an estimated 10,000 Jews per year entered
Germany as permanent residents.
_
Many of the Jews were driven out of the CIS after an upsurge in anti-Semitism.
When the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, Soviet Jews feared an increase in
anti-Semitic violence. And indeed, anti-Semitic violence and hate propaganda
surged when newly-founded right-wing parties and nationalist groups took
advantage of the political freedoms that resulted with the demise of communist
party hegemony. In the early 90s, most Jews left with the pretext that the
newly founded Russian Federation was becoming increasingly dangerous for Jews
and other minorities.
_
Until January 2005, Jews from the former Soviet Union could enter Germany as
contingency refugees. This status allowed Jews to be able to get around
Germany’s ever-increasing immigration restrictions. The contingency-refugee
law, passed on January 9 1991, did not limit the number of Jews that could
enter Germany. It was also an open-ended law – meaning that there were no time
restrictions forcing Jews to make the decision of whether or not to emigrate or
when.
_
The German government has recognised that a great many immigrants from the
former Soviet Union have been seeking to establish residency in Germany for the
sole purpose of bettering their economic standing or in order not to lose their
chance at being allowed to receive automatic residency.
_
Nonetheless, the government has exercised restraint over the past 15 years.
Knowing that it had a historical debt to pay to the Jews of Europe, it sought
to right a historical wrong by supporting the re-population of former Jewish
centres throughout Germany through its Jewish immigration policy. However, the
government has come under increasing pressure to revamp its failed integration
policies.
_
But even the cash strapped Jewish communities want to see more involvement in
their congregations by the new immigrants, should they seek to live in Germany
– and have thus found a consensus with immigration policy makers. “If the
immigrants do not want actively participate in Jewish life here, then what on
earth are they coming here for… they might as well stay home” one disgruntled
Berlin community member told EJP.
_
The member lamented that at least half of all CIS Jews have not registered with
a local congregation. In fact, of the 220,000 Jews living in Germany today,
only 120,000 are officially registered with any congregation associated with
the Central Council of Jews in Germany.
_
“Many of the Russians are not members because many of them are not Jewish in
the first place,” one Dresden Jewish community leader told EJP [2,3].
_
She was referring to Jewish law which prescribes that a Jew is a person born of
a Jewish mother. German immigration policy, however, has also let the offspring
of Jewish fathers into Germany as contingency-refugees.
_
“Anyone descended from a Jew, whether from a Jewish mother or, only, a Jewish
father was considered ethnically Jewish in the former Soviet Union. Anyone
there that was branded ‘Jewish’ was open game to all forms of discrimination.
Therefore, the German government did not distinguish between a people whose
mother or only whose father was Jewish,” an interior ministry source said.
_
This policy has, however, also created a social problem among the
contingency-refugees within Germany’s established Jewish community structures.
_
Many of these so-called not-Jewish-Jews are not considered Jewish by their
local congregations, even though they have shown an interest in becoming a
member of a congregation.
_
“In Russia, I was discriminated for being a Jew. In Germany, the Jewish
community does not let me become a member because my mother was not Jewish,”
Diana K., a Ukrainian immigrant to Berlin told EJP.
_
“If being Jewish is a heritage, then it must also come from the father,” Diana
said.
_

[chart]
_
Nuremberg Race Laws [4]
_
The Jewish communities have offered to convert these immigrants. However, many
contingency-refugees, such as Diana, told EJP that they do not think it is
right for them to have to convert to something that they feel that they already
are.
_
Like in Israel, many Russians who have immigrated here are neither Jewish from
either their mother or father’s side. Some are the spouses of Jews. However,
many have used falsified documents claiming to be Jews for the sole purpose of
obtaining easy visa for a western country.
_
Since last year, the Jewish roots of new immigrants are being more severely
scrutinised at German consulates throughout the CIS.
_
As a result of the tightening up of the contingency-refugee laws, which also
makes it mandatory for new arrivals to become active members of a Jewish
synagogue congregations, fewer Jewish immigrants have been coming into Germany.
_
Last year, less than 6,000 Jews entered Germany from CIS countries. So far this
year, fewer than 400 Jews have immigrated to Germany. Non-Jewish spouses and
children will still be let into Germany, as long as the Jewish partner fulfils
the new requirements.
_
Perhaps due to Germany’s historical responsibility towards Jews, government
analysts have avoided scrutinising the integration processes of the
contingency-refugees. Thus, official statistics about the integration of Jews
is not available.
_
One source told EJP that most offspring of CIS-Jewish immigrants have learned
German and, unlike immigrants from most other non-EU countries, an above
average number of them have gone on to further their education. However, many
of their parents cannot speak German properly and have been collecting some
form of state aid. Also, many have been unwilling to identify with Germany at
all. In fact, many have shown open disdain for their host country as a result
of its Nazi past.
_
At a leadership conference of Germany’s Jewish Student Union, last year, the
question of whether the Union should better integrate itself with other student
organisations was rejected. Most of the student leaders underlined the fact
that Jews were still not being accepted by other groups as full-fledged
citizens and thus they did not feel that any alliance with other student or
civic organisations would further their cause.
_
Because of their claim that Germany is severely riddled in latent
anti-Semitism, about half of the student leaders even claimed that they were
still in Germany only because of their parents and that Germany was nothing
more than a way-station for them on their final road to Israel or countries
with a less tainted past.
_
"Such an attitude is not indicative of whether a person is integrated or not,”
the interior ministry source said. “If the immigrants learn the language, have
a job and have a clean police record, then they are considered integrated,” he
said. “Since about half of these young people’s parents have no solid working
knowledge of German and because a large number of these hold no long-term job,
then we can assume that the integration process has failed here too.”
__
In order to combat language and social deficits among its migrant population,
the government has intensified its offer of German and integration courses –
free of charge. Such courses are now mandatory for recipients of welfare
benefits. For many Jews from the CIS, these courses have been made available at
Jewish community centres throughout Germany.
_
However, as one critic put it, “how do you expect these Russian speaking Jews
to properly learn German or to integrate with other cultures in Germany if
their courses are held among themselves… this is indicative of why integration
has been failing”.
Posted by atheistjewingermany@gmail.com at 12:57 PM 1 comments ●
Labels: Assimilation, Communities, Community, Conversion, German, Germany,
Identification, Identity, Immigration, Jew, Jewish, Jews, Judaism, Juden,
Judisch, Munich, Ostracism, Russian, Soviet, Synagogue

Wednesday, August 19, 2009

Who is a Jew in Germany ? The Wankum Question

What if the head of Hamburg’s Jewish community wasn’t actually Jewish?, Tablet
[1]

[Hamburg]
 On March 6th 1997, 2.574.000 Jews live in Europe, they were 10.048.400 in
1930; 62.000 Jews live in Germany, they were 564.400 in 1930; 2.900 Jews live
in Hamburg, they were 20.800 in 1930 (from Jews In Hamburg - Permanent
Exhibition at the Museum of Hamburg History [2])

For years, Andreas Christoph Wankum was the Hamburg, Germany, Jewish
community’s favorite son. A self-made millionaire who made his fortune in real
estate, he signed fat checks to Keren Hayesod, the influential pro-Israel
charity. When Communism collapsed in Hungary, he was instrumental in helping
many of that country’s Jews make aliya. He funded scores of Jewish
philanthropies in Israel and Germany alike, including a Birthright-type
initiative that sent local Jewish students on their first visit to the Jewish
state.

There was only one problem: he may not have been Jewish, and the rabbi who
appointed him to the presidency of the Hamburg branch of Keren Hayesod, the
global equivalent of the United Jewish Communities, may not even been a real
rabbi. As if being a Jew in Germany wasn’t complicated enough, this case of
identity wars is threatening to tear apart Hamburg’s Jewish community, which is
one of Germany’s most resurgent and influential. And, like so many things in
Germany, this affair is all about adhering to the rules.

Born in 1955, Wankum first discovered his Jewish roots when he was 13.
Observing that his neighbors, the Wolfs, shut down their dry-cleaning business
every Saturday, he asked his mother about this odd business practice. The
Wolfs, she said, were Jewish, and so were the Wankums, even though they’d
concealed it during the war for obvious reasons.

Enamored with his new identity, Wankum reached out to Hamburg’s Jewish
community, and even received documents from its leaders that helped him avoid
military service. But his Jewish provenance remained questionable, and he never
joined the community as a full-fledged member.

In 1999 when Wankum was offered the presidency of the local branch of Keren
Hayesod, he found himself facing an unexpected hurdle. To accept the position,
he was told, he needed to be an official member of the community. And to do
that, he needed to prove, beyond any doubt, that he was indeed Jewish. He was
helped in his quest by Rabbi Dov Levi Barzilai, Hamburg’s chief orthodox rabbi.
In December of 1999, Barzilai heard four witnesses, including Wankum’s brother
and his wife’s uncle, and then signed a paper declaring, officially, that
Wankum was a Jew. Soon thereafter, Wankum accepted his new position.

Under Wankum’s leadership, Keren Hayesod experienced unparalleled success. But
in late December 1999, following terrible liquidity problems with his company,
Wankum declared bankruptcy, which, in Germany’s unremitting political and
economic landscape, is a death sentence: Bankruptcy and debt are unacceptable,
and forgiveness is never offered. To anyone, that is, but Wankum. Remembering
his charitable past, his fellow community members kept him in their warm
embrace, and, in 2003, bestowed on him the highest honor imaginable, the
chairmanship of Hamburg’s Jewish community.

It was at that time that Wankum aroused the interest of Stefan Knauer, a
veteran journalist for the venerated German weekly Der Spiegel. Nearing
retirement, Knauer decided to abandon the hard-edged topics he’d been covering
throughout his career and examine instead the state of religion in his local
community. The Jewish community in particular struck him as insular, further
igniting his curiosity. He was especially fascinated by its boisterous
chairman, Wankum. Then, one day, he had an epiphany. “[Wankum] was just looking
for rehabilitation,” Knauer said in a recent interview, “a place where no one
can criticize him after his bankruptcy, and the Jewish community is the best
shelter because any criticism about its chairman is immediately tagged as
anti-Semitism and Nazism.”

Guided by his suspicions, Knauer started to ask around about Wankum and his
religious affiliations. Wankum, on his end, kept referring the reporter to
Rabbi Barzilai, and claimed that 2,000 years of Jewish history gave him the
right not to talk to the media.

“We started to look in archives in villages around Hamburg where his family
used to live,” Knauer said. “There were registration forms with religion
identity and we found that Wankum’s mother was named Ruth Morgenstern and she
was registered as Lutheran. But you can’t really know because many Jews hid
their identity under the Third Reich. On the other hand, how do you explain
that his middle name is Christoph?”

Knauer’s quest might have ended up nowhere if it weren’t for Ruben Herzberg. A
local educator and a former beneficiary of Wankum’s funds, he was appointed the
community’s chairman after Wankum’s term ended in 2007. Soon thereafter, he
said, strange things began to happen. “When I was elected as chairman,” he
said, “I found out that we basically don’t have any money to maintain ourselves
and that we must find ways to cut our expenses. I might be naïve, but I was
expecting our rabbi to care about the situation and take a pay cut.”

Rabbi Barzilai, however, would do no such thing, and an exasperated Herzberg
began looking into the rabbi’s conduct. During one such investigation, he
learned that several community members, Wankum among them, had no documents
certifying his Jewishness. Alarmed, he asked the rabbi to provide proof that
Wankum was indeed a Jew.

“After a while we understood that Rabbi Barzilai has no documents,” Herzberg
said, “just four witnesses and that only one of them was Jewish himself.” In
his defense, Rabbi Barzilai claimed he was not permitted to divulge the names
of Wankum’s witnesses, but Herzberg asked around and learned that no such
rabbinic edict existed. Suspicious, Herzberg decided to call the central
rabbinate in the Israeli coastal town of Netanya, where Barzilai claimed to
have gotten his rabbinic certification. They were shocked to learn it wasn’t
kosher: the chief rabbi of Netanya wrote Herzberg back, saying that the people
who appointed Barzilai had no authority to do so. (Barzilai’s credentials are
currently being examined by a German rabbinical court. He refused to comment
for this piece.)

At this point, Hamburg’s wars of the Jews escalated. “During our checkup,”
Herzberg said, “we found that 20 people were missing documents in their files;
16 responded and brought us the papers, but four, including Wankum and his
brother, never answered and were ousted from the community.”

Herzberg fired Rabbi Barzilai, an act he he’s claimed in previous interviews
with the press was motivated by financial issues, with the community refusing
to pay his pension. Some of his colleagues in the community were so livid about
what they perceived to be Wankum’s deception that they suggested digging
Wankum’s deceased mother from her grave in the Jewish cemetery and interring
her elsewhere. Within months, former collaborators became the worst of enemies.

“I will tell you what Herzberg is according to the Jewish halacha,” Wankum
fumed recently. “He is a total schmuck, a pathological liar of the worst kind.
He just wants to clean the community from anyone who was there before and he
uses methods that Nazis used in order to do it.”

Any attempt to question his sincerity, Wankum added, was malicious. “After all
I did,” he said, “the claim that I used Judaism as shelter is a disgusting lie.
I have a daughter who volunteered in a kibbutz and lives a traditional life in
Israel. So what kind of other proof do I need?” Wankum also said that it was
sheer jealousy that motivated his enemies and fueled the fallacious claims
against him. “Our fight” he said, “is a fight for Jewish identity.”

Stefan Kramer, the General Secretary of the Central Council for Jews in
Germany, agrees. “What Herzberg and his friends are doing is Chillul Hashem,”
he said, using the Hebrew term for desecration of the holy. “For me there are
more important things in Judaism than whether you mother is Jewish or not. If
you support Jewish issues and if you educated a daughter and live in Israel it
is much more Jewish to me than people who want to drag you mother out of her
grave. Herzberg is Jewish by birth, but him running to the media, letting goyim
in, shows me that he lacks Jewish brains. Jews can’t sit in a house of glass
and throw rocks outside, definitely not in Germany.”
Posted by atheistjewingermany@gmail.com at 8:28 PM 0 comments ●
Labels: Communities, Deutschland, German, Germany, Hamburg, Heritage,
Identification, Identity, Jew, Jewish, Jews, Judaism, Juden, Judisch, Munich,
Philanthropist, Synagogue

Monday, August 17, 2009

Uncertain Future, Undisputable (and Blissful) Ignorance

Jews in Germany past their peak [1]

I read with wry amusement the following post (see below in italics). In my
personal experience, Jewish communities and Jewish associations in Germany -
and specifically in Bavaria - are utterly, completely and supremely
unwelcoming. The truth is that the Moses-Mendelssohn Center in Potsdam has
absolutely no estimate whatsoever of how many Jews who are not members of a
community live in Germany. So I would be very curious to hear who in Germany
has any “expertise” on the question.

A number of years all sound good: The number of Jews increased from 1989 from
28.000 to some 130.000, what is less than a quarter of the number of Jews
living in Germany in 1933, when Hitler rose to power. Several Jewish
Communities all over Germany were reestablished, some of them even occupied
Rabbis, the first time for 60 years and … worldwide headlines announced a kind
of Jewish Renewal in Germany. Only some years ago German newspapers relished
that the number of Jewish immigrants from Russia to Germany exceeded the one to
Israel. But this was just a snap-shot …

Julius Schoeps, historian and head of the Moses-Mendelssohn Center in Potsdam
in view of declining figures of member in Jewish Communities in Berlin as well
as Brandenburg suggested to pool them together in order to keep the Jewish
Communities “alive”. In Berlin for instance last year there was a decrease of
121 people. 139 arrivals (immigrants, removals and births) contrasted 260
leavings (deaths, removals). The decrease is an underestimated trend for some
years. In 2003 the Jewish Community in the German Capital had more than 13.000
members, now at the end of 2008 the figure shrank to mere 10.794 (that is a
downturn of 17 % in 5 years). Smaller communities of course are affected by
this trend more badly, the more so because there was a trend in recent years
that Communities like Berlin advanced there growth by people moving in from
surrounding localities.

The situation in Berlin and Brandenburg is representative for the situation of
the development in whole Germany. The figure of immigrants decreased to less
than one thousand a year – it was at an annual average of 10.000 a couple of
years ago. Since a vast majority of the immigrants from former Soviet Union
were elderly people, figure of deaths is exceeding nationwide. Especially in
smaller communities there are few births, circumcisions or bar mitzvahs.

As few experts predicted the figures of Jewish growth in Germany had reached
the point of culmination in 2004/5 and are decreasing since. The high rate of
inter-marriages, the increasing leaning towards splitting up into sectarian
“liberal” or “reform” communities as well as the current age distribution
illustrate that the often acclaimed “normalization” of Jewish life in Germany
merely was a kind of flash in the pan. You don’t need to be a prophet to
predict that the speed of the diminishment will increase. Maybe as early as
2025 the figures of Jews in Augsburg, Bavaria and Germany again will reach the
level of 1990.
Posted by atheistjewingermany@gmail.com at 9:05 PM 0 comments ●
Labels: Augsburg, Bavaria, Bavarian, Berlin, Census, Community, Jew, Jewish,
Jews, Judaism, Juden, Judisch, Munich

Saturday, August 15, 2009

Operation Reinhard and the Shoah by bullets

Holocaust: The Ignored Reality, by Timothy Snyder [1]

Though Europe thrives, its writers and politicians are preoccupied with death.
The mass killings of European civilians during the 1930s and 1940s are the
reference of today's confused discussions of memory, and the touchstone of
whatever common ethics Europeans may share. The bureaucracies of Nazi Germany
and the Soviet Union turned individual lives into mass death, particular humans
into quotas of those to be killed. The Soviets hid their mass shootings in dark
woods and falsified the records of regions in which they had starved people to
death; the Germans had slave laborers dig up the bodies of their Jewish victims
and burn them on giant grates. Historians must, as best we can, cast light into
these shadows and account for these people. This we have not done. Auschwitz,
generally taken to be an adequate or even a final symbol of the evil of mass
killing, is in fact only the beginning of knowledge, a hint of the true
reckoning with the past still to come.

The very reasons that we know something about Auschwitz warp our understanding
of the Holocaust: we know about Auschwitz because there were survivors, and
there were survivors because Auschwitz was a labor camp as well as a death
factory. These survivors were largely West European Jews, because Auschwitz is
where West European Jews were usually sent. After World War II, West European
Jewish survivors were free to write and publish as they liked, whereas East
European Jewish survivors, if caught behind the iron curtain, could not. In the
West, memoirs of the Holocaust could (although very slowly) enter into
historical writing and public consciousness.

This form of survivors' history, of which the works of Primo Levi are the most
famous example, only inadequately captures the reality of the mass killing. The
Diary of Anne Frank concerns assimilated European Jewish communities, the Dutch
and German, whose tragedy, though horrible, was a very small part of the
Holocaust. By 1943 and 1944, when most of the killing of West European Jews
took place, the Holocaust was in considerable measure complete. Two thirds of
the Jews who would be killed during the war were already dead by the end of
1942. The main victims, the Polish and Soviet Jews, had been killed by bullets
fired over death pits or by carbon monoxide from internal combustion engines
pumped into gas chambers at Treblinka, Be zec, and Sobibor in occupied Poland.

Auschwitz as symbol of the Holocaust excludes those who were at the center of
the historical event. The largest group of Holocaust victims—religiously
Orthodox and Yiddish-speaking Jews of Poland, or, in the slightly contemptuous
German term, Ostjuden—were culturally alien from West Europeans, including West
European Jews. To some degree, they continue to be marginalized from the memory
of the Holocaust. The death facility Auschwitz-Birkenau was constructed on
territories that are today in Poland, although at the time they were part of
the German Reich. Auschwitz is thus associated with today's Poland by anyone
who visits, yet relatively few Polish Jews and almost no Soviet Jews died
there. The two largest groups of victims are nearly missing from the memorial
symbol.

An adequate vision of the Holocaust would place Operation Reinhardt, the murder
of the Polish Jews in 1942, at the center of its history. Polish Jews were the
largest Jewish community in the world, Warsaw the most important Jewish city.
This community was exterminated at Treblinka, Be zec, and Sobibor. Some 1.5
million Jews were killed at those three facilities, about 780,863 at Treblinka
alone. Only a few dozen people survived these three death facilities. Be zec,
though the third most important killing site of the Holocaust, after Auschwitz
and Treblinka, is hardly known. Some 434,508 Jews perished at that death
factory, and only two or three survived. About a million more Polish Jews were
killed in other ways, some at Chelmno, Majdanek, or Auschwitz, many more shot
in actions in the eastern half of the country.

All in all, as many if not more Jews were killed by bullets as by gas, but they
were killed by bullets in easterly locations that are blurred in painful
remembrance. The second most important part of the Holocaust is the mass murder
by bullets in eastern Poland and the Soviet Union. It began with SS
Einsatzgruppen shootings of Jewish men in June 1941, expanded to the murder of
Jewish women and children in July, and extended to the extermination of entire
Jewish communities that August and September. By the end of 1941, the Germans
(along with local auxiliaries and Romanian troops) had killed a million Jews in
the Soviet Union and the Baltics. That is the equivalent of the total number of
Jews killed at Auschwitz during the entire war. By the end of 1942, the Germans
(again, with a great deal of local assistance) had shot another 700,000 Jews,
and the Soviet Jewish populations under their control had ceased to exist.

There were articulate Soviet Jewish witnesses and chroniclers, such as Vassily
Grossman. But he and others were forbidden from presenting the Holocaust as a
distinctly Jewish event. Grossman discovered Treblinka as a journalist with the
Red Army in September 1944. Perhaps because he knew what the Germans had done
to Jews in his native Ukraine, he was able to guess what had happened there,
and wrote a short book about it. He called Treblinka "hell," and placed it at
the center of the war and of the century. Yet for Stalin, the mass murder of
Jews had to be seen as the suffering of "citizens." Grossman helped to compile
a Black Book of German crimes against Soviet Jews, which Soviet authorities
later suppressed. If any group suffered especially under the Germans, Stalin
maintained wrongly, it was the Russians. In this way Stalinism has prevented us
from seeing Hitler's mass killings in proper perspective.

In shorthand, then, the Holocaust was, in order: Operation Reinhardt, Shoah by
bullets, Auschwitz; or Poland, the Soviet Union, the rest. Of the 5.7 million
or so Jews killed, roughly 3 million were pre-war Polish citizens, and another
1 million or so pre-war Soviet citizens: taken together, 70 percent of the
total. (After the Polish and Soviet Jews, the next-largest groups of Jews
killed were Romanian, Hungarian, and Czechoslovak. If these people are
considered, the East European character of the Holocaust becomes even clearer.)
Posted by atheistjewingermany@gmail.com at 2:58 PM 1 comments ●
Labels: Antisemitism, Deutschland, genocide, German, Germany, Holocaust, Jew,
Jewish, Jews, Judaism, Juden, Judisch, Nazi, Shoah

Saturday, August 8, 2009

The Warburgs: The Odyssey of a Remarkable Jewish Family

The Warburgs [1]

The Warburg saga can be traced to 1559, when a German Jew known as Simon of
Cassel moved from Hesse to Warburg, a town in Westphalia. There he worked for
the Prince-Bishop of Paderborn as a moneychanger and pawnbroker, two of the
very few professions the Catholic authorities in the region permitted Jews to
enter. In 1668 Simon’s great-grandson, Juspa Joseph of Warburg, moved to
Altona, near Hamburg, and in 1773 one of the latter's descendants moved into
the great port city itself. There, in 1798, two Warburg brothers, Moses Marcus
and Gerson, created M.M. Warburg & Co., which mostly brokered bills.

The Warburgs' first claim to major prominence coincided with the life-times of
five Warburg brothers: Aby (1866-1929), Max (1867-1946), Paul (1868-1932),
Felix (1871-1937), and Fritz (1879-1964). Aby turned his back on finance and
became one of the great bibliophiles and art historians of the twentieth
century. Max and Paul worked diligently and patriotically for a German empire
that had allowed Jews much freedom after centuries of anti-Semitic deprivation.
By 1914, M.M. Warburg & Co. was the leading private bank in Hamburg, playing a
top role in acceptance credits, foreign exchange, and securities operations.

In 1895, the firm cemented ties to Kuhn, Loeb, and Company, Wall Street's
second most important investment banking house, when Paul married Nina Loeb,
daughter of one of its founders, and Felix married Frieda Schiff, whose father
Jacob was the leading partner in Kuhn, Loeb and was himself a Loeb son-in-law.
With Max and Fritz in Hamburg, and Paul and Felix in New York, the Warburgs
could now boast strong global connections. Indeed, 1900-1914 was a high point
of financial success for the Hamburg Warburgs, as they floated numerous
government loans and enjoyed close ties to the Kaiser and the German Foreign
Office.

This summit would prove ephemeral, however, for it was followed by World War I,
chaos in international banking, hyperinflation in the German mark, and, most
ominously, a new German nationalism resulting from the Versailles Treaty that
would make the Warburgs the most visible scapegoat for Nazi propagandists and
their disillusioned, resentful followers. By 1938, after a 140-year existence,
M.M. Warburg & Co. had been plundered and then "Aryanized" as Brinckmann, Wirtz
& Co. by the Nazi regime. After World War II, the Warburgs persevered in
resuscitating the family name in Hamburg banking circles, and Max's son Eric
(1900-1990) succeeded in capturing control of the old firm and restoring the
original name.

In America, Paul grew weary of Wall Street and, having long been interested in
importing European banking theories and practices, pushed certain basic reforms
for U.S. finance--all of them tied to his vision of a central bank. In 1913 his
brainchild, the Federal Reserve System, was enacted and President Woodrow
Wilson appointed him a member of its first board of governors. Felix remained
with Kuhn, Loeb but found time, like many other Warburgs past and present, to
be extremely active in Jewish causes. He donated generously to philanthropy at
home and to overseas relief efforts for impoverished and endangered Jews in
Europe and pre-state Israel. For many years he was a leader of the Joint
Distribution Committee, and in 1917 he was instrumental in bringing together 75
different charities to form the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies.

In the generation succeeding the five Hamburg-born brothers, Max's son Eric,
was notable for his attempts to reinvigorate a Jewish presence in
post-Holocaust Germany; Paul's son James (1896-1969), moved in high government
circles during the New Deal, was an intimate of John F. Kennedy and Adlai
Stevenson, and wrote numerous books on government economic policies and
international relations; and Felix's son Frederick (1897-1973), secured much
business for Kuhn, Loeb through his well-placed connections and continued his
father's high-level identification with Jewish philanthropy.

The most successful of all the Warburgs, incidentally, was not a son of the
five brothers but a nephew, Siegmund (1902-1982). Having apprenticed with Uncle
Max in the 1920s, he later fled the Nazis for London, where he eventually
developed this century's foremost global banking firm.
Posted by atheistjewingermany@gmail.com at 9:35 PM 0 comments ●
Labels: Altona, Banking, Finance, Jew, Jewish, Jews
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)

Articles

  • A shadow of its former glory
  • Ausweis Bitte !
  • Burden of Proof
  • Church and State in Germany
  • Emigration from Germany
  • Fastest growing population
  • Final Prejudice
  • Haskalah
  • History of Jews in Munich
  • In Praise of Jewish Atheism
  • Jewish Identity Documents
  • Latkes and Vodka
  • Munich Agreement
  • Orthodox Paradox
  • Ostjueden in Germany
  • Perils of Indifference
  • Seeing beyond the hype

●

Munich Videos

  • 1933 Putsch commemoration
  • 1938 Munich agreement
  • 1945 Dachau Liberation
  • 1972 Olympic Games

●

Videos

  • Doubting Julia Sweeney
  • Foreskin's Lament
  • Holy Shit !
  • Root of all evil
  • Virus of Faith

●

Blog Archive

  • ▼  2010 (1)
      □ ▼  January (1)
          ☆ A Short History of the Jews of Munich, Germany

  • ►  2009 (22)
      □ ►  September (2)
      □ ►  August (4)
      □ ►  July (3)
      □ ►  May (3)
      □ ►  April (1)
      □ ►  March (3)
      □ ►  February (2)
      □ ►  January (4)

  • ►  2008 (21)
      □ ►  December (2)
      □ ►  November (7)
      □ ►  October (9)
      □ ►  September (3)

●

Munich

Munich
Marienplatz, Munich
●

Feed

[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
●

This site is moderated

atheistjewingermany@gmail.com
    München, Germany
    Jewish Jew Jews Judaism Atheist Atheism Munich München Muenchen German
    Germany Deutschland

View my complete profile
●
