  • Home
  • The Book
  • Contents
  • Preface
  • About Joel
  • [                    ][Search]

Your Religion Is False

Feed on
    Posts
    Comments

  I'm working on other books these days. While I'll still update this blog as
     time allows, more frequent updates can be found at my personal site,
                                 joelgrus.com.

Poll: Religious People Don’t Know That Much About Religion

Sep 27th, 2010 by Joel

Apparently, religious people don’t know that much about religion:

    In fact, although the United States is one of the most religious developed
    countries in the world, most Americans scored 50 percent or less on a quiz
    measuring knowledge of the Bible, world religions and what the Constitution
    says about religion in public life.

Atheists do a little bit better, in large part (I assume) because a lot of the
questions are things you’d know from reading Your Religion Is False. And, in
fairness to the religious folks, a lot of the things on the test are sort of
obscure, like Maimonides and Indonesia and the Ten Commandments.

I’m most perplexed^* by the following result:

    Barely half of all Catholics know that when they take communion, the bread
    and wine literally become the body and blood of Christ, according to
    Catholic doctrine.

You’d think they’d figure that one out just from the taste and texture.

* That’s a Maimonides joke. Har har.

Share

Tags: maimonides, transsubstantiation

Posted in Uncategorized | 15 Comments >>

Converts are the Worst

Sep 23rd, 2010 by Joel

Over at the other blog:

Converts are the Worst

Share

Tags: converse, converts, hinduism, jokes

Posted in Uncategorized | No Comments >>

Blasphemy and Forced Reverence

Sep 10th, 2010 by Joel

In case you don’t follow my other blog, there’s a post over there you should
read.

Share

Tags: blasphemy, irreverence, islam, quran

Posted in Uncategorized | 1 Comment >>

Who Gets to Cast Magic Spells on You After You Die?

Sep 1st, 2010 by Joel

Mormons, in case you didn’t read the pamphlets at the latest Glenn Beck rally,
like to cast magic spells on you after you die. And not the good kind of magic
spells, like the ones that use horcruxes to bring you back to life in a creepy
noseless body. No, their spells are intended to turn you posthumously Mormon,
at which point, um, well, nothing, I guess. If you weren’t a Mormon when you
were alive, then presumably you don’t believe in Mormonism, and so probably
also you don’t believe that Mormon magic spells actually do anything, in which
case it’s hard to see why you’d care.

Nonetheless, a group representing Holocaust victims found the practice utterly
objectionable, arguing, um, well, … ? OK, I’m not really sure what their
argument was, although I imagine it involved the Holocaust somehow, and maybe
magic or Mormonism or golden plates or plural marriage or something. Anyway,
the upshot is that about 15 years ago the Mormons agreed not to cast any more
spells on Holocaust victims, except (of course) for those with living Mormon
descendants, since, um, err, well, I’m not sure why that makes a difference,
but just accept that it does.

Anyway, “database monitoring” by the NSA revealed that the Mormons were in fact
continuing to cast magic spells on Holocaust victims, but (luckily) a crack
team of magicians and database engineers have fixed the problem:

    The Mormon church says it has changed its genealogical database to better
    prevent the names of Jews [sic] Holocaust victims from being submitted for
    posthumous baptism by proxy.

    In a joint statement issued Wednesday, The Church of Jesus Christ of
    Latter-day Saints and a coalition of Jewish leaders said a new computer
    system and policy changes related to the practice should resolve a years
    long disagreement over the baptisms.

Finally, the Holocaust victims can, um, something?

Share

Tags: holocaust, magic, mormonism, proxy baptism

Posted in Uncategorized | 11 Comments >>

Cavepeople on Immigration Reform

Jul 17th, 2010 by Joel

I’m not sure if you’ve been following the congressional debates on immigration
reform, but they’re quite interesting. Both sides have pretty good arguments.
For instance, the pro-immigration-reform forces make a powerful case:

    Southern Baptists respect and strongly support upholding America’s laws,
    [Southern Baptist leader Richard Land] said, but they “also recognize a
    biblical mandate to care for ‘the least of these among us’ (Matthew
    25:34-40), to care for the ‘strangers’ who reside in our land (Leviticus
    19:34; Hebrews 13:2) and to act justly and mercifully (Micah 6:8),” Land
    told the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship,
    Refugees, Border Security and International Law.

If I understand him correctly, he’s saying that while Baptists “support”
upholding the law, they’re also eager to change the laws so that they more
closely concord with the ideas in Bible books like Matthew and Leviticus and
Micah.

(This also helps explain why they won’t ever shut up about the “Linen and
Woolen Act of 2008.)

Now, apparently Biblical arguments are not uncommon in the HJSICRBSIL, as those
opposed to reform also used them:

    Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, read a quote from Romans 13:1-7 that
    crystallized the argument for enhanced border security and strict
    enforcement of existing federal immigration laws: “Let every person be
    subject to governing authorities.”

    “I suspect we will hear today that it is somehow immoral or unethical to
    enforce our nation’s laws and that we should ignore our laws,” Smith said.
    “For those who want to take this approach, there is just one problem: the
    Bible contains numerous passages that support the rule of law.”

If this is truly Smith’s philosophy, I guess this means that his Bible supports
copyright maximalism, the PATRIOT Act, and criminalizing non-violent marijuana
users.

In any event, it’s hard not to be proud that a several-thousand-year-old book
written by cavepeople plays such a prominent role in our public policy
discourse. It appears that Smith’s wife is a faith healer, so perhaps he’ll
draw on this additional expertise as the HJSICRBSIL works through the nuts and
bolts of health care reform.

Share

Tags: bible, christian science, health care, health care reform, immigration,
lamar smith, leviticus

Posted in Uncategorized | 6 Comments >>

Door to Door Atheists

Jul 15th, 2010 by Joel

It looks like this is pretty old, but I’d never seen it before, and it’s pretty
funny:

embed(http://embed.break.com/MTg1ODA2)
EMBED-Door To Door Atheists Bother Mormons – Watch more free videos

Share

Tags: mormonism, proselytization

Posted in Uncategorized | 3 Comments >>

Advice for the Pope: 10 Ways to Fight Secularism

Jun 29th, 2010 by Joel

Before leaving on summer vacation to check out the new Harry Potter theme park,
the Pope gave us a teaser of his autumn plans:

    Pope Benedict XVI is creating a new Vatican office to fight secularization
    and “re-evangelize” the West — a tacit acknowledgment that his attempts to
    reinvigorate Christianity in Europe haven’t succeeded and need a new boost.

I like to think that I know a little something about “secularism.” In that
spirit, I offer up 10 [S:commandments:S] suggestions to help the Pope with his,
um, crusade:

10. Create colorful infographics showing that more children are molested by
wicked (presumably secular) step-parents than by priests. (If anyone complains
that the priests would look worse per capita, excommunicate him.)

9. Point out how “secular” referees can’t even judge whether a soccer ball goes
in the goal or not, whereas the Pope is infallible.

8. Highlight how postponing retiree benefits until after death has allowed the
Vatican to escape the fiscal woes plaguing its European peers.

7. Contrast between Papal support of gun control and “secular” American love of
firearms ought to appeal to gun-hating weenies.

6. Start own MMA league (e.g. “CatholicForce”) and pay whatever it takes to get
Brock Lesnar to join.

5. Sponsor a Judd Apatow movie starring Will Ferrell as a wacky priest, or a
Michael Bay movie about robots that turn into priests. Or both!

4. Somehow convince Lady Gaga to use Catholic imagery in one of her videos.

3. Announce a ban on Your Religion Is False. (It could really help with sales!)

2. Reverse the Church’s position on masturbation. (That doesn’t just mean “use
the other hand,” although I guess it could.)

1. Abandon mysticism and superstition, embrace science and reason.

They’re yours to use if you want them!

Share

Tags: brock lesnar, catholicism, football, harry potter, judd apatow, lady gaga
, masturbation, michael bay, mma, molesting, papal infallibility, pope, priests
, soccer, will ferrell, world cup

Posted in Uncategorized | 6 Comments >>

21st Century Religion Apps

Jun 23rd, 2010 by Joel

I was pretty excited when I saw an article about how apps are bringing religion
into the 21st century. I’m pretty familiar with the 21st century, so I imagined
changes like

  • abandoning belief in “infallibility” of centuries-old, mistranslated texts
  • embracing equal rights for women
  • accepting that evolution is the best paradigm for understanding biology
  • eliminating barbaric practices like genital mutilation
  • boring church services replaced with thrilling Words with Friends sessions

Unfortunately, I then read the article, at which point I discovered that the
changes would be better described as “bringing the 21st century into religion”:

    There was a time when Werle carried her leather-bound and dog-eared Bible
    everywhere she went, scribbling in the margins as she read. These days she
    accesses the Word and makes her notes on her iPod Touch.

It’s practically a new Reformation!

    Twerski has apps that let him read the Torah, the Talmud and the Siddur,
    the book of daily prayers; recite the appropriate blessings for meals
    depending on the food that’s served; and vet the thousands of ingredients
    in his work inspecting Kosher food factories around the state.

    “When I used paper … I could be sitting a long time. Now, it takes me just
    seconds to look for an ingredient,” he said.

So basically, it’s like the 20th-century religion (which was like the
19th-century religion, the 18th-century religion, and so on) but faster!

    “It goes with me everywhere,” said Daniel Johnson, president of Wisconsin
    Lutheran College, who uses his iPhone to access the Bible, daily devotions,
    Christian music and sermons. “There’s not been a time in the history of man
    when it’s been as convenient to focus on one’s relationship with the Lord.”

There’s also never been a time in history when it’s been as convenient to focus
on the merits of belief in the “Lord.” But to do that you’d have to, um, bring
religion into the 21st century.

Share

Tags: apps, iphone, ipod

Posted in Uncategorized | 4 Comments >>

Pork Street Party

Jun 15th, 2010 by Joel

The “tolerance”-driven Islamicization of Europe proceeds apace, with the
cancellation of the first annual “Sausage and Booze” party:

    Police said the party, called “Sausage and Booze,” could have been viewed
    as a provocation in the Goutte-d’Or neighborhood of northern Paris, where
    many Muslims pray on the streets because there are not enough mosques.
    Alcohol and pork are forbidden by Islam and the party had been slated for
    just after Friday’s main Muslim weekly prayers.

This sort of “provocation” is, of course, part of living in a “free” society.
You’re free to believe any number of moronic things, while the rest of us are
free to mock all of your cherished supernatural beliefs. Your god hates gays?
Then we’re going to be as gay as possible! Your god hates shrimp? Then it’s
seafood cocktail time! Your god hates thetans? Then we’re going to put on funny
“V is for Vendetta” masks and let people know about your top-secret sci-fi
beliefs.

Incidentally, this is why I’m unsupportive of the various “ban the burqa”
movements. In a free society, people wear what they want, and then we make fun
of them for it. You’re free to put on a moronic “ABSOLUT SAVED” or “GOT CHRIST?
” or “JESUS LOVES YOU BUT EVERYONE ELSE THINKS YOU’RE AN ASSHOLE” shirt (ok,
the last one is actually kind of good), and we’re free to take your picture and
put it on the internet with a degrading caption and post it to our “tumblr”
blog and twitter about it and put it on our Facebook walls.

We’d be much better served, I maintain, by a mock the burqa movement. For
instance, we could exhume Sho Kosugi and film a movie (“Pork Street Party”)
about a group of ninjas who cross paths with a bunch of burqaed women, with the
result being all sorts of hilarious confusion. Or what about a crime caper
(“Pork Street Party’s Revenge”) involving bank robbers who use burqas as
disguises but cross paths with an overbearing sheikh who thinks they’re part of
his harem and drags them back to his palace? Steven Spielberg (or his non-union
Mexican equivalent), call me!

Anyway, back to France. It turns out that the “Urban Affairs Minister” isn’t
actually against Pork Street Parties; she’s only against this Pork Street
Party:

    Urban Affairs Minister Fadela Amara — who is of Algerian descent — said
    that she doesn’t ordinarily believe in banning street parties. “I’m for
    people gathering, drinking and having a laugh,” she told RTL radio. But she
    said it was right to ban this party because it would have been “extremely
    dangerous” given its ties to the far right, “and all that implies about the
    hatred behind it.”

Therefore, I’m sure she won’t object to the next Pork Street Party. Right?

Share

Tags: france, goutte-d'or, islam, paris, pork street party, sausage and booze,
tolerance

Posted in Uncategorized | 5 Comments >>

The Big Gay Hawaiian Rabbinical Debate

Jun 12th, 2010 by Joel

Unable to make up her mind about a pending “civil unions” bill, Hawaii’s
governor is doing what any sensible person would do — getting advice from
dueling rabbis:

    Rabbis Itchel Krasnjansky and Peter Schaktman hail from different branches
    of Judaism and hold starkly contrasting views on whether same-sex couples
    should be permitted to form civil unions in Hawaii.

    What they have in common is the ear of Republican Gov. Linda Lingle, who
    has until June 21 to announce whether she may veto the only pending civil
    unions legislation in the nation.

    Lingle, in the final months of her second and last term, faces a momentous
    decision that carries political and legal implications. For the rabbis,
    with whom the governor has consulted on the issue, her choice is about much
    more.

For our benefit, both rabbis have written op-ed pieces outlining their views.

The anti-gay rabbi, for instance, wisely observes that a 12th-century Torah
scholar believed that homosexuality is simply a lifestyle choice:

    Whether homosexuality is a choice or a predetermined tendency. According to
    the famed medieval Jewish doctor and philosopher Maimonides, an early
    codifier of Jewish law, it is a matter of choice. And, as with all matters
    of free choice, one can choose to either surrender to or deny these
    inclinations.

Maimonides also believed that the earth was at the center of the universe,
surrounded by “heavenly spheres” that are in fact “angels.” It’s too bad the
rabbi couldn’t somehow work this into his argument, but you know how editors
are.

The pro-gay rabbi, on the other hand, insists that ancient views of ‘gay’ sin
no longer apply in today’s Hawaii:

    Those who object to the bill on religious grounds tend to be literalists
    who justify their view by pointing to Leviticus 18. The problem is that by
    reading this text so literally, they completely remove this Scripture from
    an ancient social context that could not envision the possibility or
    appreciate the reality of loving same-sex relationships.

Why do ancient views of anything apply in today’s Hawaii? I can’t wait to read
his next op-ed and find out.

Share

Tags: civil unions, gay, hawaii, homosexuality, itchel krasnjansky, judaism,
linda lingle, peter schaktman

Posted in Uncategorized | 4 Comments >>

                                Older Posts >>

  • Buy the Book!


    [book_cover]*
  • Become a Facebook fan!
  • Pages

      □ The Book
      □ Preface
      □ Contents
      □ About Joel
  • Contact

    your.religion.is.false
    --at--
    gmail.com
  • 
      □ Friends

          ☆ Friendly Atheist
          ☆ Godless Bastard
          ☆ Liberty and Skepticism
          ☆ Making My Way
          ☆ No Jesus, No Peas
          ☆ Secular Right
          ☆ Teapot Atheist
          ☆ The Macho Response
          ☆ Why Does God Hate Amputees
      □ Nemeses

          ☆ BioLogos
          ☆ David Klinghoffer
          ☆ Randal Rauser
  • Twitter

      □ No public Twitter messages.
  • [atheistblo]
  • Shirts and Stickers

    [false_side]
  • Recent Posts

      □ Poll: Religious People Don’t Know That Much About Religion
      □ Converts are the Worst
      □ Blasphemy and Forced Reverence
      □ Who Gets to Cast Magic Spells on You After You Die?
      □ Cavepeople on Immigration Reform
  • Archives

      □ September 2010
      □ July 2010
      □ June 2010
      □ April 2010
      □ March 2010
      □ January 2010
      □ December 2009
      □ November 2009
      □ October 2009
      □ September 2009
      □ August 2009
      □ July 2009
      □ June 2009
      □ May 2009
      □ April 2009
      □ March 2009
      □ February 2009
  • Tags

    2012 atheism barackobama barack obama bible biologos biology blasphemy
    books catholicism christianity circumcision climate change communion
    crucifixion dan brown deepak chopra discovery institute education evil
    evolution faith francis collins global warming god harry potter hell
    hinduism islam jesus judaism mohammed mormonism politics pope pope benedict
    prayer proselytization religion science scientology terrorism theodicy
    theology transsubstantiation
  • Site Meter

Your Religion Is False (C) 2016 All Rights Reserved.

Free WordPress Themes | Fresh WordPress Themes


