Black Woman Thinks...Religion, Politics, Race, Atheism and more...

11 April 2012

The Trayvon Martin Case - My Thoughts



I, as someone living across the pond from the USA, watched the news this late
evening with empathy for the family grieving the death of their son. The news
hounds and legal eagles jostled for air time  and in the melee a couple of
sentences jumped out at me. The next paragraphs gives some context:

    Speaking at a press conference, Angela Corey, the Florida State Attorney,
    said Zimmerman had voluntarily turned himself in, and was now in custody.
    Saying that the decision to charge him was not taken lightly, she went on:
    “Today we filed an information charging George Zimmerman with murder in the
    second degree. It is the search for justice for Trayvon that has brought us
    to this moment.”
    Miss Corey said she had spoken to Trayvon’s “sweet parents” moments before
    the press conference began to tell them about the charges.
    She added that she had first discussed the case with his mother, Sabrina
    Fulton, and father, Tracy Martin, who she described as “constitutional
    victims,” when she took over the case three weeks ago.

    "The first thing we did was pray with them. We did not promise them
    anything," she said.


Excuse me?

Forget the patronising 'sweet parents' comment. For a moment. Forget that
justice (whatever that means and in various forms) is very difficult to obtain
if you happen to be in the wrong 'category'.
By pass the fact that this juncture has arisen purely because people mobilised
and highlighted that a young black man was killed on the street.

The Florida State Attorney, no less, who had been allocated the case only 3
weeks ago decided that in her wisdom the first thing she needed to do with the
family was.....pray. You could not make it up.

They prayed together and so what a great way to show how you connect with the
family, show your determination to obtain truth and detailed analysis of the
death of this young man. You stand and do something so utterly based on a
collection of 'whoppers' (as we say in the UK) and the family will go away
feeling that you are doing the very best job possible.
Well I'm not convinced. Why someone in such a powerful position would feel the
need to state, in a 'secular country' that prior to meeting with the family of
the deceased they all prayed together.

Is it me or do you see why I am spitting feathers about this? How could this
happen? The young man is dead, the system has failed him and his family and
only due to immense pressure do the powers that be decide to placate the
dissenters/protesters and do what some say they should have done in the first
place.

'We did not promise them anything'. Of course you didn't. You couldn't. Nor
should you do something so utterly pointless and dumb as to pray with them.
Posted by Zee Harrison at 5:32 PM 14 comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: florida state attorney, pray, secular, trayvon martin

21 June 2011

Why We Believe in Gods

Posted by Zee Harrison at 4:30 PM 6 comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: why we believe in gods

18 June 2011

'Atheists of Color' - an easy to use list of people and groups

A little late but a more than worthy blog post here. Greta Christina is a very
interesting atheist blogger who I have written about here on a few occasions.
She has very kindly added my name and this blog to the list.

http://gretachristina.typepad.com/greta_christinas_weblog/2011/03/
atheists-of-color.html

She has kindly agreed to the list being copied. Please pay her a visit and
leave a comment.
                                  INDIVIDUALS
   Mina Ahadi, founder of the Central Council of Ex-Muslims (Zentralrat der
          Ex-Muslime) and the International Committee against Stoning
Ayaan Hirsi Ali, author of Infidel and Nomad, activist, politician, founder of
the AHA Foundation
Norm Allen, author of African American Humanism andBlack Secular Humanist
Thought, editor-in-chief of Human Prospect: A Neo-Humanist Perspective,
secretary of Paul Kurtz's Institute for Science and Human Values, former head
of African Americans for Humanism
Apanage21, blogger
Maggie Ardiente, director of development and communications, American Humanist
Association; editor of Humanist Network News (AHA's weekly e-zine)
Homa Arjomand, coordinator of the International Campaign Against Shari'a Court
in Canada
Hector Avalos, Professor of Philosophy and Religious Studies at Iowa State
University, speaker/ debater, author of The End of Biblical Studies, Strangers
in Our Own Land: Religion in U.S. Latina/o Literature, Se puede saber si Dios
existe? [Can One Know if God Exists?], and more
Donald Barbera, author of Black But Not Baptist: Nonbelief and Freethought in
the Black Community
Dan Barker, co-president of Freedom From Religion Foundation, author of several
books, including Godless: How an Evangelical Preacher Became One of America's
Leading Atheists and The Good Atheist: Living a Purpose-Filled Life Without God
Jamila Bey, atheist comedian and journalist
Naima Cabelle, atheist activist and member ofWashington Area Secular Humanists
Ian Cromwell, musician and blogger, The Crommunist Manifesto
Dr. Narendra Dabholkar, founder, Maharashta Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samitee
(Superstition Eradication Committee)
Sanal Edamaruku, author and paranormal investigator, founder-president of 
Rationalist International, president of the Indian Rationalist Association,
creator of The Great Tantra Challenge
Afshin Ellian, columnist for Dutch daily NRC Handelsblad and Elsevier; blogger;
poet; law professor at University of Leiden
Mike Estes, Atheist Coalition of San Diego; public speaker
Reginald Finley, founder of Infidel Guy radio show
MercedesDiane Griffin, blogger/ activist
Debbie Goddard, campus outreach coordinator at theCenter for Inquiry, speaker,
head of African Americans for Humanism
Jacques L. Hamel, Scientific Affairs Officer with United Nations, international
science and technology policy expert
Zee Harrison, blogger, Black Woman Thinks
Mark Hatcher, founder of Secular Students at Howard University
Sabri Husibi, speaker, Tulsa Atheist Group
Sikivu Hutchinson, writer and editor, author of Moral Combat: Black Atheists,
Gender Politics and Secular America, editor of BlackFemLens.org, Senior Fellow
for theInstitute for Humanist Studies
Leo Igwe, International Humanist and Ethical Union, Nigeria
David Ince, a.k.a. Caribatheist, blogger, No Religion Know Reason
JeansTake, video blogger
McKinley Jones, president, Black American Free Thought Association (BAF/TA)
S.T.Joshi, literary critic, novelist; author of God's Defenders: What They
Believe and Why They Are Wrongand more; editor of Atheism: A Reader and more
Alix Jules, chair of diversity committee on the Dallas-Fort Worth Coalition for
Reason
Kenan Malik, writer, lecturer, blogger, and BBC Radio broadcaster, author of 
Fatwa to Jihad: The Rushdie Affair and its Legacy, Strange Fruit: Why Both
Sides are Wrong in the Race Debate, and more
Derrick Alaiyo McMahon, gay/ feminist/atheist blogger, The Anti-Intellect Blog
Hemant Mehta, blogger at Friendly Atheist, author of I Sold My Soul on eBay
Ian Andreas Miller, blogger, Diaphanitas
Jeffrey "Atheist Walking" Mitchell, atheist street philosopher and member of 
Black Skeptics
Micheal Mpagi, blogger, Quitstorm
Maryam Namazie, rights activist, commentator and broadcaster on Iran, rights,
cultural relativism, secularism, religion, political Islam and other related
topics; spokesperson for the Council of Ex-Muslims of Britain
Taslima Nasreen, author and activist
Ramendra Nath, professor and author; head of Department of Philosophy, Patna
College, Patna University; author of Why I Am Not a Hindu, Is God Dead?, The
Myth of Unity of All Religions, and more
First Nation, blogger, Native Skeptic
Kwadwo Obeng, author, We Are All Africans
Adebowale Ojuro, author of Crisis of Religion
James Onen, radio broadcaster, blogger at Freethought Kampala
Charone Paget, producer/host of LAMBDA Radio Report, WRFG, Atlanta; on
leadership team of Black Nonbelievers of Atlanta; founder of Queer and Atheist
of Atlanta
Ernest Parker, leader of African Americans for Humanism DC
Anthony Pinn, author of numerous books on humanism, head of Institute for
Humanist Studies, Agnes Cullen Arnold Professor of Humanities and Professor of
Religious Studies at Rice University
Robin Quivers, radio personality
Bwambale Robert, founder, Kasese Humanist Primary School, Kasese United
Humanist Association
Sid Rodrigues, scientist, researcher, organizer of Skeptics in the Pub
Arundhati Roy, author of The God of Small Things and more, activist
Salman Rushdie, author of The Satanic Verses,Midnight’s Children, Luka and the
Fire of Life, Grimus, and more
Amartya Sen, Nobel-prize winning economist
Alom Shaha, science teacher, film-maker, and writer
Ariane Sherine, creator of the Atheist Bus Campaign
Labi Siffre, poet and songwriter
Simon Singh, author, journalist, TV producer, libel reform activist
Greydon Square, atheist rapper and spoken word artist
Wafa Sultan, author and critic of Islam and Islamic theocracy
David Suzuki, scientist, environmentalist and broadcaster; co-founder of the
environmentalist David Suzuki Foundation
Red Tani, Filipino Freethinkers
Mandisa Lateefah Thomas, co-founder, Black Nonbelievers of Atlanta
Maria Walters, a.k.a. Masala Skeptic, blogger, Skepchick
Ayanna Watson, founder of Black Atheists of America
Wrath James White, author, blogger at Godless and Black
Clarence Williams, author of Truth
Donald Wright, author of The Only Prayer I'll Ever Pray: Let My People Go
Zhiyah, writer/blogger, The Affirmative Atheist
Indra Zuno, stage/ film/ television actress, Mexico and USA, appeared in "The
Virgin of Juarez" and "The Violent Kind" No comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: atheists of color, atheists of colour, greta christina

13 May 2011

Evolution: A Simple Explanation

embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/vss1VKN2rf8&fs=1&source=uds)


Posted by Zee Harrison at 11:26 AM 3 comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: evolution, simple explanation

02 April 2011

Quote of the Week:

"The true-believer syndrome merits study by science. What is it that compels a
person, past all reason, to believe the unbelievable. How can an otherwise sane
individual become so enamored of a fantasy, an imposture, that even after it's
exposed in the bright light of day he still clings to it — indeed, clings to it
all the harder?… No amount of logic can shatter a faith consciously based on a
lie."


~ M. Lamar Keene, Allen Spraggett, and William V. Rauscher
Posted by Zee Harrison at 11:32 AM 6 comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: faith, quote of the week

01 April 2011

Star Size Comparison

Food for thought.

embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/HEheh1BH34Q&fs=1&source=uds)
Posted by Zee Harrison at 4:54 AM 3 comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: food for thought, star size comparison

05 March 2011

'I am Stardust!'

A woman who is a friend decided at the age of about 13 or so to start going to
church. She 'gave' herself to Christ and received encouragement and praise from
her relatives and peers. Her devotion to 'God' was so intense that she even
spent a year in a theology college in Scandinavia, taught young children about
the love of god and all things Christian.
Her life moved on with the normal ups and downs that people experience and some
poignant tragedies, divorce, premature death, etc. Her faith was almost intact
and her 'rebel-mindedness' started her thinking about life, the purpose of life
and why and how we are here.
We worked together for a short period and then lost touch. Our lives collided
again and we took the same journey living in another continent, trying new
things and lifestyles, wanting to get away from being a 'wage-slave'. This
woman is the craziest, wackiest, bravest woman I know. We would talk about any
and everything without fear of judgement or put downs from each other, oh
except once when she unceremoniously told me at high volume to 'fuck off' out
of her house!! (We got over that one!! - and the rest!)

My dear friend is now a non-believer. She is going through it as I write and
she has given me permission to write about it here, to share it with you. She
is crying, distraught, depressed at the number of people she has 'converted' to
Christianity over the years. Her part in their indoctrination is causing her
immense grief. She has come to the decision that this idea of a god or gods is
bogus and should have no place in the rational, reasonable, wonderful and
magnificent world that we live in. 'I am stardust' she said. Astonished at the
thought. 'I am stardust. We are stardust'. Her words. We are all connected, we
are all one and that makes the world more exciting and amazing than any
botched, badly written, cobbled-together story in any of the so called 'great
religions'. Science has helped us to discover only a minute part of all there
is to know. What has religion helped us to know in comparison?

My friend is in pain and I am doing my best to support her on this journey as
she has been hit by a mega-truth: we humans have been conned into focusing on
the life after the only one we know. We have created rules which have prevented
us from being true to ourselves. We have focused on rules like: you must cover
your head, mustn't wear trousers as a woman, mustn't eat pork, must not eat red
meat on Good Friday, must not wear jewellery, must cross yourself in a
particular way after saying prayers or before eating, must wash parts of your
body 5 times per day, must not eat prawns, must not eat cows, must face a
particular direction whilst praying, must give 10% of your earnings to the
religious institution you attend - and the list goes on. I'm sure you can think
of at least 10 more.

Humans have hampered their own development.

My friend has begun to free her self from the shackles of faith and to use her
own words, ' I am free. I feel like a weight has been lifted off me. Do you
know before I would go to church and come home depressed? Now I know I have
responsibility for myself and it makes complete sense that we are born and then
we die and that is it. I feel at peace and am annoyed that it has taken me so
long to reach this point.'

My response: 'But at least you got there. So many people won't.'


Posted by Zee Harrison at 4:32 AM 7 comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: rules of religion, star stuff, stardust

28 December 2010

A Freethinker: Annie Besant

[annie]
I chanced upon Annie Besant after returning from spending a typical Caribbean
Christmas with friends and family.

Annie Besant was an incredibly interesting woman, brave and intelligent at a
time where women were devalued. Here is a quote from a book she wrote 'My Path
to Atheism' (1885, 3rd edition):

    "The first essay on the "Deity of Jesus of Nazareth" was
    written just before I left the Church of England,and marks the point where
    I broke finally with Christianity. I thought then, and think still, that
    to cling to the name of Christian after one has ceased to be the thing is
     neither bold nor straightforward, and surely the name ought, in
    all fairness, to belong to those historical bodies who have made it their
    own during many hundred years.

    A Christianity without a Divine Christ appears to me to
    resemble a republican army marching under a royal banner it misleads both
    friends and foes. Believing that in giving up the deity of Christ I
    renounced Christianity, I place this essay as the starting-point of my
    travels outside the Christian pale. The essays that follow it deal with
    some of the leading Christian dogmas, and are printed in the order in which
    they were  written. But in the gradual thought-development they really
    precede the essay on the "Deity of Christ".

    Most inquirers who begin to study by themselves, before they have read
    any heretical works, or heard any heretical controversies, will have
    been awakened to thought by the discrepancies and inconsistencies of the
    Bible itself. A thorough knowledge of the Bible is the groundwork
    of heresy.

    Many who think they read their Bibles never read them at all. They
    go through a chapter every day as a matter of duty, and forget what is said
    in Matthew before they read what is  said in John ; hence they never mark
    the contradictions and never see the discrepancies. But those who study
    the Bible are in a fair way to become heretics.

    It was the careful compilation of a harmony of the last chapters of the
    four Gospels a harmony intended for devotional use that gave the first blow
    to my own faith ; although I put the doubt away and refused even to look at
    the  question again, yet the effect remained the tiny seed, which was
    slowly to germinate and to grow up, later, into the full-blown flower of
    Atheism."


Posted by Zee Harrison at 4:05 PM 3 comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: annie besant, atheist, freethinker

14 December 2010

Black Atheist: Neil deGrasse Tyson

Instead of watching the televangelists just take a  few minutes to listen to
this wonderful educator.
embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/0EzV4sl0_1w?fs=1&hl=en_GB)
Posted by Zee Harrison at 4:38 PM 5 comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: black atheist, educator, inspired, neil degrasse tyson

03 December 2010

The Wikileaks Story: Have the Worms Turned?

[Wikileaks_-logo]
I have pondered on the Wikileaks story and haven't quite made up my mind as to
the motivation, aims and objectives of Julian Assange - not yet, not
completely.

The nub of it seems to be:
World powers are a cabal, various factions with Cosa Nostra-type behaviours and
values who rule, and do so with impunity.

Yet it is disturbing to watch the distraction techniques being used by people
who are a part of the cabal, overtly or covertly, who act as mouthpieces and
apologists for those in power.
We have been fooled into believing that democracy is what we all have and
should aspire to. That people like Dick Cheney, Barack Obama, Tony Blair, David
Miliband, the Clintons, Karzai, Harper, Putin, Merkel and the rest of them,
have our best interests at heart. They don't. It doesn't work like that. The
scenes have been set to look different but they are all the same.

I have been fascinated by how MSNBC, ABC and the other television news media
have been reporting the Wikileaks story. No surprise that it is 'Julian Assange
- The Rapist', instead of  'Wikileaks opens a can of worms about corrupt,
murderous governments around the world...' It stinks so badly that it would be
funny if it wasn't so grave. I listened to the news presenters foaming that
these leaks would cost so many lives of brave servicemen and women and
diplomatic personnel around the world.
I imagine the loved ones of those who have been killed - fighting for a system
which has killed millions of people around the world, decimated communities,
arrested progress, engaged in and forced others to engage in - and how they
must feel now they know the deaths were part of a great big con, used as cannon
fodder, of low value in the whole scheme of things.

What do we do with this information? Well it would be good if we could all
think about what is being presented to us and why. Hidden agendas operate all
around and we should not believe anything we are told just because it is in
front of us. We should take back control of our lives and realise that labels
are irrelevant: black, white, old, young, left, right, LGBT or any other tag,
we are considered as little more than rats running hither and thither: work,
pay taxes, consume and then die.
Makes me think about how the religious myths have been promoted for the same
reason - control.

I don't buy it.
So, what do you think? Have the worms turned?
Posted by Zee Harrison at 2:09 PM 3 comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: cabal, wikileaks, worms turned

28 November 2010

Quote of the Week: George Orwell

    "During times of universal deceit, telling the truth becomes a
    revolutionary act. "

           ~ George Orwell

Very apt. Wikileaks. 
Posted by Zee Harrison at 1:33 PM 2 comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: george orwell, quote of the week, wikileaks

16 November 2010

A Right Royal Farce

[kate]
Just in case you haven't yet been sledge-hammered by the British media - Kate
and William will get married next year.
'Who?' I hear you ask. Tut-tut.
William, the son of Charles Windsor who is the son of the present queen of the
UK, is marrying a 'commoner' and the sycophantic media are rubbing their hands
in glee at the inevitable increase in profits, clamour for advertising space
and airtime, the pundits blah-blahing for hours on irrelevancies e.g. types of
thread being used to sew her wedding gown, the presents received from
impoverished countries and so it will go on.
All nicely timed to distract the masses from the dire financial (fleecing?)/
situation of the country. We'll wave and smile and be encouraged to have street
parties (yes, you mark my words, it will happen) and on that specially created
bank holiday we'll sit with our little flags and bunting for hours on end as we
admire the enormous event which we have paid for.
Dumb. That's what we are. With buzz words and phrases: austerity measures,
tightening belts, recession, job losses and so on yet it is totally reasonable
for the British people to spend hundreds of millions of pounds on a wedding.
'Yeah, but they make a lovely couple...'
Posted by Zee Harrison at 12:26 PM 6 comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: kate and william, recession, royal farce, royal wedding

31 October 2010

Godless and Black

If you are a believer you may not be aware that black atheists exist or even
'People of Colour' who do not  believe in god/s. As such we can feel isolated
and cut off from the mainstream religious communities that provide emotional
support when life gets tough.
As atheist (a- without, theist- god) I am so aware of the position I have found
myself in as I make no bones about my non-belief. It is not something that I
hide nor boast about. I don't see myself as especially clever, not even a great
conversationalist but I let people know when necessary that I don't buy into
any of it.
This has created some difficult situations, broken friendships, stilted
conversations and excluded me from religious ceremonies, to some extent. In the
main, the religious pity me as if I had done something deliberately to ensure I
would never receive their 'truth'. Some have jumped back in shock that someone
could be so stupid as to not believe in god. Whatever the reaction, however
many prayers have been said, I am a staunch, firm believer that this life is
for now and the so called heaven and hell is right here now. When we die we
die. Full stop. There is no proof of anything else.
My life is richer, freer and I take life as it comes without expecting help
from 'on high'.
The title of this post is 'Godless and Black' and a blog of the same name is
one I would recommend you to visit, if you haven't already done so. The writer
is fascinating and makes so many excellent points and is a seasoned writer.
Visit him and let him know what you think. Godless and Black
We are not alone. More people are waking up to the fact that the religious
texts are not infallible. Black people have lost so much in the name of a myth
and yet we don't change course.
"Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth." In other words, don't
fight against your oppressors, don't seek justice here on earth, just be meek
and mild, keep praising whilst people take inhumane liberties against you and
your generations to come. The only coffers that will be fattened do not belong
to you.
Posted by Zee Harrison at 7:39 AM 12 comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: godless and black

16 October 2010

Quote of the Week: Arthur C. Clarke

"Religion is the most malevolent of all mind viruses."

~ Arthur C. Clarke
Posted by Zee Harrison at 1:39 AM 3 comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: arthur c. clarke, malevolent god, mind viruses, religion

20 September 2010

Ella Fitzgerald - 'Summertime'

Changing the subject completely: Here's something to soothe and mesmerise
simultaneously. I love Ella's voice, she makes it all seem so effortless. She
allows the song to just be. The musicians hold back without overkill.
 Just. Beautiful.

embed(http://www.youtube.com/v/1j6avX7ebkM?fs=1&hl=en_GB)
Posted by Zee Harrison at 6:06 AM 10 comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: ella fitzgerald, sooth and mesmerise, summertime

15 September 2010

The Pope arrives in the UK...

[Pope_Benedictus_XVI_january]
He arrives in the UK on 16th September 2010 on a state visit paid for, in the
main, by UK taxpayers. Why isn't the British public up in arms about a criminal
being lauded and paraded on a state visit?
I cannot write about this charade any better than Christopher Hitchens, so here
is an extract from a piece he wrote in 'Slate' entitled: 'A Call for Earthly
Justice: Holding the Catholic Church accountable for it's crimes':


    "As if almost timed to coincide with its publication, and with the
    impending arrival of Ratzinger on British soil, the recent disclosures of
    the putrid state of the church in Belgium have thrown the whole scandal
    into an even sharper relief. Consider: The now-resigned bishop of Bruges,
    Roger Vangheluwe, stands revealed by his own eventual confession as being
    guilty of incest as well as rape, having regularly "abused" his male nephew
    between the ages of 5 and 18. The man's superior as head of the Belgian
    church, Cardinal Godfried Danneels, has been caught on tape urging the
    victim to keep quiet. A subsequent official report, commissioned by the
    country's secular authorities, has established that this level of morality
    was the rule throughout the hierarchy, with the church taking it upon
    itself to "forgive" the rapists and to lean upon their victims. Very
    belatedly, a few months ago, the Belgian police finally rose from their
    notorious torpor and raided some ecclesiastical offices in search of
    evidence that was being concealed. Joseph Ratzinger, who had not thus far
    found a voice in which to mention the doings of his Belgian underlings,
    promptly emitted a squeal of protest—at the intervention of the law..."

We should all rise together as one voice and remove these criminals from their
positions of power.

I believe most people here are parents or guardians of children.
Imagine that you had placed your child into the care of these men and then
years later you were told by your adult child that they had been sexually
abused by these paedophiles for 5, 10, 15 years.

Tell me how would you feel? Would you say 'it was God's will'?

Would you be happy to know that Ratzinger was fully aware of these criminal,
violent acts yet silenced your child and moved the paedophile priest to another
parish where he could and did commit those same crimes against hundreds of
other children?

We have been so brainwashed to the point where these things won't concern most
of the faithful too much as  they flock to see 'The Holy Father', spend their
hard-earned money, walk miles, stand for hours, buy the tacky, junk souvenirs
and return home having done their bit for 'God'.

You couldn't make it up.
Posted by Zee Harrison at 2:32 PM 4 comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: criminals, paedophiles, pope, ratzinger

09 September 2010

My First Contract

I signed my first contract today and I am pleased! I have also employed one
member of staff and am sifting through the 48 others who have applied for
positions in my company.
One thing has surprised me: People seem not to know how to complete CV's
correctly, to complete an application form, I am shocked. The education system
here seems split between the haves and the have nots.

A few of them submitted CV's and when I asked them to complete the detailed
application form suddenly referees who were either friends or relatives
suddenly didn't appear on the form.
So many people said they were 'obedient' or 'docile' - honestly, I'm not making
it up! How sad that they see those traits as being positive in the job market.
But we seem to be breeding clones who just do as they are told, which is
necessary to an extent, but...
I don't want people like that around me. Some staff members will have far more
skills, experience and abilities in certain areas than I have and I want
employees to feel that they can contribute to and benefit from sharing
knowledge as the business grows. I cannot pay a great deal of money to start
but equally I refuse to pay people the minimum wage. Not really great for
business but how can I feel good about paying people peanuts and expecting them
to work and feed themselves and their families?

Anyway, it is early days. My marketing strategy is progressing well and
although I have kept my expenditure to a minimum things seem to be going
tickety-boo. So far.

My only real problem now is lack of sleep. It is affecting me more than I
realised. I awoke this morning after only 4 hours sleep and lay prone on the
bed thinking,  'I cannot physically move'. It took me over an hour to be able
to muster the strength to release myself from the duvet and then stand - with
my eyes closed throughout. All the while repeatedly muttering 'This is crazy!'
It's this business.

I promise myself at least 7 hours of quality sleep each night now. Mmmm....
Posted by Zee Harrison at 4:10 PM 3 comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: employing staff, lack of sleep, my first contract

31 August 2010

I'm Starting a Business...

...and it is making me lose sleep. It's like an obsession. Each moment I spend
doing something else seems like a complete waste of time.
I'll wash up and think, have a bath and think - I'm writing this now at after
midnight in the UK and I really need to go to bed, having woken up at 6am I
need my sleep.
The last few weeks have been great though. My procrastinating ways have been
placed firmly in the past. I have a passion and it is to make this seed of an
idea grow into something worthwhile.

I did take time out over the weekend to attend a wedding in the country - a
lovely wedding, the groom is one of the nicest people I know and his new wife
seems equally lovely. The celebration was marred a little by the sexual
innuendos and unwelcome hands on my body (read: molestation) by 2 very sad
brothers. You know the type: still live at home with elderly parents, no
discernible means of income and completely distraught that they have done so
little with their lives. Unwashed (reeked) and orange-brown teeth. And because
no money, hung around people poncing the next glass of their favourite tipple.
 I'm not a violent person but it did cross my mind to give each of these morons
a sharp left hook but then I had images of the wedding being spoiled, the
police officers (who had seen maybe 4 'people of colour' in their whole lives)
dragging this black woman in handcuffs and me locked up thinking how to explain
it to the white judge in the morning - with the moron brothers in intensive
care on drips.
No, not a good idea.

Yet I felt violated and weak. I failed to deal with the situation. I spent over
5 hours in their company and it was a nightmare. They used their drunkenness as
a mask for their inadequacies and I didn't deal with it well. I left the
wedding early saying I would be back and retreated to a safe haven.

I raced back to London away from the stale beer, 'eejats' and sheep and threw
myself onto my nice clean comfortable bed, ecstatic to be home and then I had a
long hot bubble bath and got back to business.

Wow, I never intended to share all that with you! Just to tell you that I'm
recovering and focusing on my business.
It is exciting and challenging and I feel great having to wrack my brains
again. More people should try it...
Posted by Zee Harrison at 4:37 PM 7 comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: fleeing back to London, molestation, starting a business

09 August 2010

10 More Dead...

[images]You may or may not be aware of the alleged missionaries killed in
Afghanistan recently. Read more HERE.
It brings to the fore a part of the reason for the occupation/crusade in the
region by Western forces.
International Assistance Mission has said the doctors shot to death by the
Taliban were there for humanitarian reasons, to provide eye care for people who
lived in remote, almost inaccessible regions of the country. Yet I am not
completely convinced.
What I am convinced about is just how stupid, yes I have to use that word,
stupid we are that of all the things in the world we could be doing,
experiencing,  discovering, enjoying - we kill each other for imaginary
entities. It is so crazy to think of people killing each other because one
thought Peter Pan was real and another Paddington the Bear! Yet that is what
has happened.
The 10 people killed are a tragic illustration that we need to wake up from
this mind-fog that has had a strangle-hold on our thinking for thousands of
years. It sometimes makes me weary as I see it all around me.

I listened to an audio book the other day, a mp3 of pure excellence from a man
who wrote clearly, succinctly and I was enthralled. Within the first couple of
minutes I was hooked, paused the recording and switched off everything in the
place that could ring, whistle or make any other noise to disturb me. I ran
back to repose on my couch, making myself extremely comfortable in the process.
Around chapter 3, the 'god stuff' came churning out. I was in shock. I felt as
if I had been slapped with a wet rag! This was from a man who had travelled,
lectured on critical thinking, started and sold businesses around the world,
written award winning books (this was my first encounter) and there he was
dropping in 'praise god', 'thank god', 'oh, I prayed so hard'.

It is insiduous. Gets into almost every nook and cranny, distorts thinking,
makes people do crazy things and arrests development. It makes some people a
lot of money, it relieves a larger majority of a lot of money. It is clever as
it extracts money in small dribs and drabs and also in a big chunk. It makes
people feel guilty, obsessed about sex, worried about death, worried about
life. It makes people participate in meaningless ceremonies which encourage
them to spend money: christenings, church weddings, church funerals.
It encourages dangerous practices: penile mutilation on young helpless male
babies, exorcisms, female genital mutilations.

It is encourages people to believe absolute rubbish and then kill others
because of it and so 10 more dead.

When will we wake up?
Posted by Zee Harrison at 9:35 AM 5 comments: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: 10 more dead, christian missionaries, muslim, religion

24 July 2010

Child Abuse (7)

[child]
Posted by Zee Harrison at 12:02 AM 1 comment: Links to this post ● ●
Labels: child abuse, child abuse religion, pope kissing child
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)

Child Abuse Series

  • Home
  • Child Abuse Series - Images

●

POPULAR POSTS:

  • 'Abortion: A Woman's Right to Choose?'
  • 'Dream Deferred' - Langston Hughes
  • 'You're Black, Ain't Ya?'
  • A Jamaican Joke!
  • A Jamaican Poem - 'Back to Africa' by Ms Louise Bennett
  • A Little Girl Called Me a Nigger Today
  • Back to Africa?
  • Black Homophobia and an Old Time Religion
  • Child Abuse (1)
  • Religious Groomers
  • The Politics of Black Hair
  • This Crazy Homophobic World
  • What's the Point of Tattoos?
  • White English Minority in England?
  • Women and Religion

●
[                                      ] [Search]
Google
Custom Search
●
Adgitize your web site.
●

[feed-icon1] Subscribe in a reader

●

Popular Posts

  • [louise]
    A Jamaican Poem - 'Back to Africa'
    I love this poem by the late great Louise Bennett, also known as 'Miss
    Lou'. This poem is written in the Jamaican patois and deals ...
  • [abortio]
    Abortion: A Woman's Right to Choose?
    Abortion. A word that seems to irritate and cause some people to foam at
    the mouth as they predict nasty painful experiences for those who &...
  • The Negro Mother
    I am the one who labored as a slave, Beaten and mistreated for the work
    that I gave— Children sold away from me, husband sold, too...
  • The Trayvon Martin Case - My Thoughts
    I, as someone living across the pond from the USA, watched the news this
    late evening with empathy for the family grieving the death of th...
  • [default]
    Why We Believe in Gods
  • 'Atheists of Color' - an easy to use list of people and groups
    A little late but a more than worthy blog post here. Greta Christina is a
    very interesting atheist blogger who I have written about here on ...
  • [jill-sc]
    The Politics of Black Hair
    Have you ever visited a hair salon for your appointment at 9am and left
    after 10pm? I have.There are so many black women who will understand...
  • [catholi]
    Catholic Church Child Abuse
    The Commission to Inquire into Child Abuse has published a report regarding
    the systematic abuse and torture by Catholic institutions in Ir...
  • [live]
    Here's a Jamaican Joke!
    I'm getting tired of all this serious stuff that's been on my blog and I
    thought I would share a joke that made me laugh. It is writ...
  • [composi]
    What's the Point of Tattoos?
    This is going to be short. Tattoos. Why?  Dark-skinned black people and
    tattoos. Some designs you can hardly see. What's the point? Wha...

●

I'M GOING TO CHURCH...

I'M GOING TO CHURCH...
●

Follow by Email

[                    ]                                                 [Submit]

●

Live Activity Feed

Wowzio
grab this . widgets
●

Followers

●

SUBSCRIBE TO MY BLOG

SUBSCRIBE TO MY BLOG
●
●

Search This Blog

Loading...
●
●

BLOGS I LIKE...

  • 
    Confessions of a skeptic
    Allott and St. Benedict's - Let's just get a few things clear. I realise
    that the latest news about Peter Allott has shocked and upset a lot of
    people. I realise a lot of people are t...
    4 weeks ago
  • 
    Dwindling In Unbelief
    The Misuse of 1 Corinthians 7 by Anti-Gay Christian Apologists - [image:
    1ColoClerk]In an obvious attempt to discourage same-sex couples from
    applying for marriage licenses, Dallas Shroeder, a county clerk in
    Colorado, p...
    4 weeks ago
  • 
    Godless and Black
    Atheism Is Not A Religion! - Believers have been employing a new tactic
    lately, claiming that atheism is the same as religion; that it requires the
    same amount of faith. It is one of t...
    2 years ago
  • 
    Greta Christina's Blog
    THIS BLOG HAS MOVED! - THIS BLOG HAS MOVED! As of this writing, I am no
    longer blogging at this address. This blog has moved to the Freethought
    Blogs network. My new blog is now at...
    4 years ago
  • 
    My Thoughts Are Free
    [SixWord]
    Six-Word Memoirs for the (mostly) Non-Religious - I ran across a book
    recently called "Not Quite What I Was Planning, Six-Word Memoirs." I found
    it when researching information about Piper Kerman who wrot...
    1 year ago
  • 
    Pinoy Atheist: My journey as an atheist in Manila.
    -
  • 
    Reason & Society
    Robert Zend: God dead? - *Robert Zend* (Hungarian-Canadian writer, 1929 -
    1985) wrote a number of poems about God, from an unorthodox perspective, to
    say the least. Here is one fr...
    1 month ago
  • 
    The Adventures of a Foreign Salaryman in Tokyo
    [2014-09]
    Ooops... - We did it again.... This one will be our last one for sure (?!)
    but now Ms. Salaryman Jnr. 2 has joined the family. The first nine months
    of pregnancy is a...
    1 year ago

●
[Atheist-Humour-14]
Click Image for more Info
●
●

There's no god...

There's no god...
●
●

Subscribe To

[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
●

Blog Archive

  • ▼  2012 (1)
      □ ▼  April (1)
          ☆ The Trayvon Martin Case - My Thoughts

  • ►  2011 (6)
      □ ►  June (2)
      □ ►  May (1)
      □ ►  April (2)
      □ ►  March (1)

  • ►  2010 (30)
      □ ►  December (3)
      □ ►  November (2)
      □ ►  October (2)
      □ ►  September (3)
      □ ►  August (2)
      □ ►  July (2)
      □ ►  June (6)
      □ ►  March (2)
      □ ►  February (4)
      □ ►  January (4)

  • ►  2009 (51)
      □ ►  December (4)
      □ ►  November (8)
      □ ►  October (8)
      □ ►  September (6)
      □ ►  August (4)
      □ ►  July (2)
      □ ►  June (6)
      □ ►  May (3)
      □ ►  April (5)
      □ ►  March (4)
      □ ►  February (1)

  • ►  2008 (71)
      □ ►  December (3)
      □ ►  November (4)
      □ ►  October (6)
      □ ►  September (6)
      □ ►  August (8)
      □ ►  July (9)
      □ ►  June (8)
      □ ►  May (4)
      □ ►  April (7)
      □ ►  March (12)
      □ ►  February (1)
      □ ►  January (3)

  • ►  2007 (6)
      □ ►  December (5)
      □ ►  November (1)

●
Word of the Day

                           shutout

Definition: A defeat in a game where one side fails to score.
Synonyms:   skunk

Word of the Day provided by The Free Dictionary
●

BlogCatalog

●

Websites and Blogs of Interest

  • Not Born Yesterday
  • The Year of No Money In Tokyo
  • Council of Ex-Muslims of Britain
  • Debate Unlimited - Martin Willett
  • Sam Harris
  • Richard Dawkins - The Official Website
  • Critical Thinking on the Web
  • Jesus Never Existed
  • The Infidel Guy Show

●

VIDEOS

Loading...
●
View blog authority
●
Join the best atheist themed blogroll!
●
who's online
●
[Blogging]
●
My BlogCatalog BlogRank
●
My Zimbio Black Woman Thinks...Religion, Politics, Race - Blogged blog search
directory Blog Flux Directory Blog Search, Weblog Directory Blogroll Me! Free
Page Rank Tool [Ringsurf_8] Discuss on Ringsurf Her Blog Directory
●

Labels

religion (15) atheist (11) child abuse (10) black people (9) quote of the week 
(6) the bible (6) barack obama (5) catholic church (5) black atheist (4) race 
(4) Africa (3) anglican church (3) atheists (3) belief (3) black woman thinks 
(3) cartoon (3) christian missionaries (3) christianity and child abuse (3) 
critical thinking (3) god (3) i'm going to church (3) pope (3) racism (3) 
supernatural (3) usa (3) African-American (2) Climate change (2) Earth (2) 
abortion (2) anonymous comments (2) atheism (2) back to africa (2) bill clinton
(2) black homophobia (2) children (2) choosing my religion (2) evolution (2) 
faith (2) ignorance (2) intelligence (2) jesus (2) langston hughes (2) 
malevolent god (2) oprah winfrey (2) people power (2) politics (2) politics of
black hair (2) pray (2) praying (2) president (2) religion and child abuse (2) 
sheeple (2) sick society (2) stephen fry (2) the usa coup (2) theist (2) unity 
(2) wikileaks (2) Dr. Anthony B. Pinn. black atheist series (1) Friedrich
Nietzsche (1) Haile Selassie (1) Human (1) Jamaican (1) Money (1) Nigger (1) 
Notting Hill Carnival (1) Ra Un Nefer Amen (1) Xmas (1) Zeitgeist (1) abuse (1)
adolph hitler (1) black atheists (1) black female atheists (1) black
freethinker (1) catholic church child abuse (1) catholic church history (1) 
child abuse. jewish children (1) child abusers (1) children praying (1) 
christians (1) christmas (1) church and state (1) church going (1) cultural
anthropology (1) dark ages (1) de rerum natura (1) deification (1) designer
africans (1) dream deferred (1) dumbing down (1) dying (1) free-thinker (1) 
freethinker (1) from the bible (1) fundamentalists (1) funeral (1) garifuna (1)
garinagu (1) gay rights civil unions (1) gender wars (1) george carlin (1) 
george orwell (1) godless and black (1) great con (1) grooming (1) head in the
sand (1) history of the british (1) homeopathy (1) homo sapiens (1) homophobia 
(1) homophobic jamaican prime minister (1) how to treat a slave (1) hubert
henry harrison (1) humans (1) i'm back (1) immigration (1) in living memory (1)
in the garden (1) inerrancy of the bible (1) infringement of personal liberty 
(1) inspired (1) inter-racial relationships (1) internet (1) invasion of
privacy (1) isaac asimov (1) islam (1) ivan van sertima (1) jamaican poem (1) 
jesus camps (1) jesus myths (1) jingle bells (1) jokes (1) joseph rowntree
organisation (1) kate and william (1) krishnamurthi (1) leslie a white (1) 
let's stay together (1) lgbt (1) life (1) louise bennett (1) lucretius (1) man
made global warming propaganda (1) marcus garvey (1) media (1) melanin (1) 
memories (1) michael franti (1) mind viruses (1) mini update (1) miss lou (1) 
mithras (1) mob (1) molestation (1) monetize your blog. pay per post (1) mormon
church cartoon (1) mosque (1) movies (1) music (1) muslim (1) my grandmother 
(1) myths (1) naomi klein (1) nationalism (1) naturalist (1) neil degrasse
tyson (1) neil young (1) observing love (1) olympics (1) omnipotent (1) on the
nature of things (1) oppression (1) paedophiles (1) pale blue dot (1) patriot 
(1) patriot act (1) photograph (1) phyllis and del (1) physical punishment (1) 
poem (1) poet (1) poetry (1) poison tree (1) pope and equality (1) pope
benedict (1) pope kissing child (1) power of prayer (1) prayer (1) pregnancy 
(1) prince charles (1) prince philip (1) prisoners of a white god (1) 
pro-choice (1) pro-life (1) problem (1) proselytise (1) quote (1) quote for the
week (1) ralph dumain (1) rasta (1) rational (1) rational thinking (1) 
ratzinger (1) recession (1) religions (1) religious (1) religious child abuse 
(1) respect (1) respect the other fellow's religion (1) royal farce (1) royal
wedding (1) rules of religion (1) same-sex love (1) science (1) scientific
naturalist (1) shamans (1) showing off their underwear (1) silencing dissent 
(1) simple explanation (1) skeptics annotated bible (1) sneezing (1) social
evil (1) somegreybloke (1) sooth and mesmerise (1) south east asia (1) speech 
(1) spray painter (1) spring cleaning (1) star size comparison (1) star stuff 
(1) stardust (1) starting a business (1) stephen baldwin (1) stereotypes (1) 
street art (1) suicide (1) summertime (1) super sprayer (1) supernaturalist (1)
superstition (1) surveillance (1) sweet honey in the rock (1) tattoos (1) 
television (1) television the drug of the nation (1) the bible in detail (1) 
the british (1) the catholic church is a force for good in the world (1) the
nation (1) the negro mother (1) the pope the bigot (1) the press (1) the swan 
(1) think (1) thomas jefferson (1) time for change (1) tom clark (1) tombstone 
(1) true self (1) universe (1) voodoo (1) what's going on (1) what's the big
deal? (1) what's the point (1) white child (1) william blake (1) women and
religion (1) workplace friends (1) worms turned (1) younger self (1)
●
No Spam,Trading or Other Contact
Without Your Permission -        Copyright
Honestly!
                                 Creative Commons License
Enter your Email                 This work by Zee Harrison is licensed under a
[                              ] Creative Commons Attribution-No Derivative
[Subscribe me!]                  Works 3.0 Unported License.
Preview | Powered by FeedBlitz   ●
●
[file_2276]
Planet Atheism - aggregating blogs by non-believers and freethinkers
●
 
Simple template. Powered by Blogger.
●
