 Darwin Bedford wearing a T-shirt
depicting the international symbol  Darwin Bedford,
   for a wastes container with a
  religious cross in place of the   Atheist Messiah,
              wastes.               Ambassador of Reason,
                                    Destroyer of Faith, and
"Everything said in the context of  Spiritual Reality Therapist
a god being real is mere nonsense." until the denormalization of religion   God
                                    is irreversible                         wanted-poster
          Darwin Bedford,                                                   by Darwin
       Atheists.net author          Webster's definitions:                  Bedford
                                    messiah -- any leader and liberator of
This web site is mostly intended    any oppressed people.
for those that are still religious; oppress -- to treat with unjust
my new web site at                  harshness || to cause to feel mentally
DenormalizeReligion.com is for      or spiritually burdened. 
those that are already                
non-religious.                       
                                    Email: darwin@atheists.net
                  
                                    PRESS RELEASE  -- Darwin Bedford Proclaims To Be
Other sites by Darwin Bedford:      Atheist Messiah

   Click to visit undoJesus.org     Introducing Spiritual Reality Therapy -- providing
                                    therapy for those who believe
          Click to visit
if-jesus-returns-kill-him-again.com The Simplicity of Existence -- An ontological
                                    explanation which concludes that Evolution is a
     [Telling God "Fu k you"]       universal physical law

Take your cross and ...             Jesus is a No-Show   -- this post had 130+ domain names
Links:                              pointing at it for more than two months and was
                                    featured on the CBC's News Day Special  ●
          [IG_banner_for]
                                    The Pope is Humpty Dumpty   -- this post received a
    [Roedy Green on Ethics and      third of a million visits and generated hundreds of
             Religion]              responses which you can view  

                                    Letter of Apology From Christendom   -- why not?--since
                                    today's Christians are wanting to separate themselves
   Click to view or download the    from the triumphalism of pre-modern Christianity  
          T-shirt design
        Trash Jesus T-shirt         Convergence of Transference Sustains the God
                                    Singularity   -- a discussion of what keeps God in
My "Trash Jesus" or "religion is    place in this age of reason  
stupid" T-shirt (as people are
calling it) is not currently        Atheism: The New Intellectual Authority -- My
available from me. However, such    definition of atheism and then some 
T-shirts are available
elsewhere--just do a Google search  I am a Murderer -- How I kill people
on "atheist t-shirts."
                                    Eternity is one Fu k of a Long Time! -- Some reality
      T-shirt Design Download       therapy for those wanting eternal life
                  
                                    Don't let that police officer tell a lie in traffic
         Sample of T-shirt          court--I didn't. -- Darwin Bedford succeeds in negating
      being worn on stage by:       God in a courtroom  
       The Almighty Punchdrunk
                                    Disclaimer -- I am as credible as a politician.
                  
                                    LivingSmokeFree.com  -- my fully expressed,
                                    anti-tobacco site

  Visit the Atheist Radio Network   Here's Proof  that the Bible is no model for modern day
                                    living
                  
                                    Adult picture of me naked -- is now a broken link.  It
         atheistempire.com          appears that nudity is a controversial issue in its own
                                    right and that we don't only cover our privates due to
       Recommended reading:         religious teachings of the past or out of fear of
       Science and Religion,        reprisal from gods.
       Are They Compatible?
                                    Published articles:
        Shop at Amazon.com          Atheism And The Environment -- How they are related. 
                                    Toward A New Paradigm Of Religion -- Is the Internet
                                    the perfect infrastructure for transformation?
                                    Caught Like Monkeys -- Don't be too stupid to let go!

                                    Why God is Siding With bin Laden   -- a possible
                                    explanation  

                                    I was prejudiced against   -- I lost 31 domain names to
                                    the federal government of Canada for using them to
                                    broadcast atheism literature, yet CanWest Global
                                    Communications Corp. is permitted to retain 
                                    "Canada.com" to broadcast their favoritism for the
                                    Liberal government.  The government spent more of the
                                    taxpayers' money in claiming them then they would have
                                    if they had paid my asking price. 

                                    Feedback Page   -- e-mail that I feel obligated to
                                    share  last updated: August 12, 2000

                                    More Feedback   -- collection of recent e-mail  updated
                                    regularly

                                    Feedback Form  -- for you to use to send your comments

                                    [Religion: A Path to Hell-on-Earth]

                                                                

                                    Favourite Quotes:  

                                    I contend that we are both atheists. I just believe in
                                    one fewer god than you do. When you understand why you
                                    dismiss all the other possible gods, you will
                                    understand why I dismiss yours.
                                      - Stephen Roberts
                                     
                                      ALL GODS ARE MAKE-BELIEVE, however as per Arthur
                                    Schopenhauer ...  "All truth passes through three
                                    stages:  First it is ridiculed.  Second it is violently
                                    opposed.  Third, it is accepted as being self-evident."
                                     

                                      EVERYTHING SAID IN THE CONTEXT OF GOD BEING REAL IS
                                                        MERE NONSENSE.

                                                    Let's debate, and build!
                                             [mail] E-Mail:  darwin@atheists.net
                                                    or use Feedback Form

                                    Make payments with PayPal - it's fast, free and secure!
                                          Atheists.net is not a registered non-profit
                                        organization. Donations to atheists.net are not
                                        tax-deductible for federal income tax purposes.

                                     Help dereligionize the world. Click on the button to
                                                            donate.

                                    Since 1996, Darwin Bedford -- Last updated: October 14,
                                                             2012
                                    You are welcome to copy and disseminate the contents of
                                                          this site.

