Who2
Biographies
  Browse 
[                    ]
  • A-to-Z List
  • Who Was Born on My Birthday?
  • Born on My Birthday
  • Born Today
  • Browse by…
      □ Birthday
      □ Birth Place
      □ Birth Year
      □ Zodiac
      □ Occupation
      □ Cause of Death
      □ Date of Death
      □ Year of Death
      □ Lists

[                    ]
[Madalyn-Mu]

See photos of Madalyn Murray O’Hair

Facts about Madalyn O'Hair

Born: 1919
Died: 1995 (murder)
Birthplace: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States
Best known as: Head of American Atheists
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
     

4 Good Links

The Murder of Madalyn Murray O'Hair

Crime Magazine examines the case in some detail

Writings: The Murray-O'Hair Family

Fine archive, including her 1965 Playboy interview and old disappearance
reports

American Atheists

Official site of the group O'Hair founded

Urban Legends: Madalyn Murray O'Hair

Full explanation and debunking of the rumor about O'Hair and religious TV

Share this:    

Madalyn Murray O’Hair Biography

Activist Political Figure 
Name at birth: Madalyn Mays

Madalyn Murray O’Hair was such a controversial figure that in 1964 Life
magazine called her “the most hated woman in America.” O’Hair was one of the
litigants in the case of Murray vs. Curlett, which led the U.S. Supreme Court,
in a 1963 decision, to ban organized prayer in public schools.

The decision made Madalyn Murray O’Hair by far the country’s most famous
atheist. She founded the group American Atheists in 1963 and remained its
leading spokesperson for three decades, appearing on TV and radio to promote
the separation of church and state (and often caustically ridiculing belief in
God). She published books including What On Earth Is an Atheist? (1969), 
Freedom Under Siege (1974) and An Atheist Epic (1989).

In 1995, O’Hair and two of her adult children vanished after leaving a note
saying they would be away temporarily. The trio appeared to have taken with
them at least $500,000 in American Atheist funds; one private investigator
concluded that they had fled to New Zealand. Eventually suspicion turned to
David Roland Waters, an ex-convict who had worked at the American Atheist
offices. Police concluded that he and accomplices had kidnapped the O’Hairs,
forced them to withdraw the missing funds, and then murdered them. Waters
eventually pled guilty to reduced charges and in January 2001 he led police to
three bodies buried on a remote Texas ranch, which proved to be Madalyn Murray
O’Hair and her children.

Extra credit

The children who disappeared with Madalyn Murray O’Hair were Jon Garth Murray,
her son, and Robin Murray O’Hair, her granddaughter by another son, William.
O’Hair also had adopted Robin Murray, making her both her daughter and her
grandchild… Madalyn Murray O’Hair’s son William announced his conversion to
Christianity on Mother’s Day in 1980 and became an outspoken evangelist for his
new faith. His book My Life Without God was published in 1992… A wild rumor
continues to circulate online that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
is planning to ban religious broadcasting based on a petition by O’Hair; that
rumor is not true.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
     

Related Biography

  • Christopher Hitchens

Something in Common with Madalyn Murray O’Hair

  • Activists born in Pennsylvania (3)

Lists

  • Disappearing Acts
  • Legends of E-Mail

Recent Posts

  • A Bad Portrait of Mary Todd Lincoln from the Museum of Bad Art
    January 3, 2016
  • Jeb Bush’s Secret 7-Point Plan to Save His Campaign
    January 2, 2016
  • The White House Situation Room Clocks are Rather Interesting
    January 1, 2016

More...

Trending Today

  • Daisy Ridley Has Star Tattoos on Her Left Foot
  • From Dropout to Doctorate: A Bill Cosby Educational Timeline
  • On the Money
  • Celebs Missing Fingers
  • Is Bill Cosby Legally Blind?


Explore: Bios by Occupation

Actor Writer Singer Filmmaker Political Figure TV Personality Model Comedian
Activist Songwriter Royalty Poet Business Personality Artist Rock Musician
Political Leader Religious Figure U.S. Senator Composer Inventor Philosopher
Browse all jobs >>

  • About Who2
  • FAQ
  • For Students and Scholars
  • Copyright

© Copyright 2015 by Who2, LLC. All rights reserved.
