Brainz

learn something.
[Username            ]
[********            ]
Login
  • Sign up, it's quick and easy!
  • [connect_li]

  • Browse Topics
      □ Autoslearn something
      □ DIY / Hobbieslearn something
      □ Educationlearn something
      □ Entertainmentlearn something
      □ Financelearn something
      □ Healthlearn something
      □ Lifelearn something
      □ Politicslearn something
      □ Sciencelearn something
      □ Sportslearn something
      □ Technologylearn something
     
  • Featured
  • Breaking News
  • Article Index

rss
[Meaning of life, Pro]
Search
View random article
[ai]

The 50 Most Brilliant Atheists of All Time

  • updown
    2757
  • 
        Tweet
        [PinExt]
  • Comments

Share

Atheism is generating quite a lot of attention these days. Prominent atheists
are getting the word out about their views in increasing numbers and generating
lots of public debate on the proper place of religion in governments and
societies in the modern world. And now more than ever, atheists have been able
to network together and join forces because of the Internet.

Today about 2.3 percent of the world's population identifies themselves as
atheist, and nearly 12 percent more (a number that is quickly growing) describe
themselves as nontheist - non-believers in any deity. The ranks of scientists
boast probably the largest concentration of atheists, and many of those have
been recognized as among the most brilliant of human beings for their work. But
there are atheists in all walks of life and throughout history as well.

Here's a look at 50 of the most prominent atheists of all time who also happen
to be recognized as some of the most brilliant members of our species.

As a note of clarification: we've ordered this list chronologically and we use
the term "brilliant" to mean "brilliant at their craft" - not just pure
brainiacs;-)

1. Democritus

[3418314903]Democritus was an ancient Greek philosopher, the most prolific and
influential of the pre-Socratics and whose atomic theory is regarded as the
intellectual culmination of early Greek thought. For this atomic theory, which
echoes eerily the theoretical formulations of modern physicists, he is
sometimes called the "father of modern science." He was well known to
Aristotle, and a thorn in the side to Plato - who advised that all of
Democritus' works be burned.

A cheerful and popular man with the citizenry for his uncanny ability to
predict events, his was known among his fans as the "Laughing Philosopher," a
title that may well have referred more to his scoffing rejection of assigning
to gods the mechanistic operations of nature itself. His cosmology and atomic
theory held that the world was spheroid, that there were many worlds and many
suns, and that all things manifest in nature were comprised of atoms bound
together. There are varying accounts of his age at death, ranging from a ripe
90 all the way to 109 years.

2. Diagoras of Melos

[3418314911]The first and most ancient of recognized atheists must include a
5th century b.c.e. poet and sophist from Melos known as Diagoras the Atheist.
Not content to simply speak against the popular pantheon of Greek gods, he also
criticized the Eleusinian Mysteries. He became a disciple of Democritus after
that notable philosopher paid a hefty ransom to free Diagoras from captivity
following the subjugation of Melos in 416 b.c.e.

Prosecuted by the Athenian democratic party for impiety in 415 b.c.e., he was
forced to flee the city and died in Corinth. None of Diagoras' own writings
survive, but in the 1st century b.c.e. Cicero wrote that one of Diagoras'
friends tried to convince him that the gods did exist by citing the many people
saved from storms by their pleas to their favorite gods, to which Diagoras was
purported to reply, "there are nowhere any pictures of those who have been
shipwrecked and drowned at sea."

3. Epicurus

[3418314907]Born in 341 b.c.e. in Athens, Epicurus established the school of
philosophy known as Epicureanism, and was a follower of Democritus even though
his own philosophy denied the influence of strong determinism and often
denounced other philosophies as confused. He was an important figure in the
early development of the scientific methodology, insisting that nothing which
cannot be tested through direct observation and defended through logical
deduction should be believed.

For Epicurus the purpose of philosophy was to attain peace of mind and a happy
life, freedom from fear and absence of pain. He considered pleasure and pain
the measures of that which is good or evil. He insisted that there were no gods
to reward or punish humans after death, that the universe is infinite and
eternal, and that all things are ultimately material in nature. Epicurus
himself was never able to escape a life of pain or a painful death, as he
suffered greatly from kidney stones and died at the age of 72 of complications
from that ailment.

4. Theodorus the Atheist

[no image available]

Theodorus the Atheist from Cyrene lived around 300 b.c.e. He was banished from
Cyrene in his early years, and moved to Athens to become a follower of the
younger Aristippus. He also managed to get himself banished from Athens which
caused him to go into the service of Ptolemy in Alexandria. It was in this
service that he was sent as an ambassador to Lysimachus, who became offended by
Theodorus' free speech as a lack of respect and decorum.

Theodorus taught that the aim of human life was to obtain joy and avoid grief,
and that joy comes through prudence while grief arises from folly. Prudence and
justice represented good, their opposites evil. Laertius complained that
Theodorus "did away with all opinions respecting the Gods," but he may have
just rejected the notions of deity popular in his time.

5. Andrew Carnegie

[3419450350]Andrew Carnegie [1835-1919] was a noted American industrialist,
businessman and philanthropist. A Scottish-born immigrant, he established the
Carnegie Steel Company in Pittsburgh and later merged it with the Federal Steel
Company to become U.S. Steel. He is regarded as the second richest man in
history, then he gave most of his steel and railroad fortune away to establish
libraries, schools and universities all over America. He limited himself to an
income of $50,000 per year, everything else went into good works.

He wrote many books on the subjects of wealth and its responsibilities, on
social issues and on political philosophy. He self-identified as a positivist,
and kept away from organized religion due to his distaste of sectarianism.
Carnegie preferred naturalism and science, saying in his autobiography that,
"not only had I got rid of the theology and the supernatural, but I had found
the truth of evolution."

6. Ivan Pavlov

[3423778799]Ivan Petrovich Pavlov [1849-1936] was a Russian physiologist,
psychologist and physician. He won the Nobel Prize in medicine in 1904 for
research on the digestive system. It was his investigation of the saliva of
dogs that first led him to notice that the animals salivated more when they
expected food, a phenomenon he termed "psychic secretion." He was particularly
interested in studying conditioned behaviors as an experimental model of the
induction of neuroses. His approach became known as "behaviorism," and after
his death his work was extended by William Sargant and others in an attempt to
develop a systematic method for brainwashing and implantation of false
memories.

Pavlov died in Leningrad, his laboratory in St. Petersburg was carefully
preserved by the Soviet government as a museum. He had one of his students
attend him on his deathbed to record the circumstances of his dying, as if it
were just another psychological experiment.

7. Sigmund Freud

[3418314893]Born Sigismund Schlomo Freud [1856-1939], Freud was an Austrian
psychiatrist founded the psychoanalytic school of psychology. Using his
theories of the unconscious mind and defense mechanisms of repression, his
psychoanalysis sought to cure sufferers of psychopathology through a dialogue
between the patient and his psychoanalyst. He had an elaborate system for
interpretation of dreams as indicators of unconscious desires, and did early
neurological research on cerebral palsy.

Despite his ideas falling out of favor or being modified in later years, his
methodology and theoretics continue to exert influence in the humanities and
some social sciences. Freud's family escaped after Nazi Germany annexed Austria
in 1938 and moved to London. He suffered more than 30 operations for oral
cancer in his late life, and convinced his physician friend Max Schur to assist
his suicide in 1939. His philosophical writings established his strong advocacy
for an atheistic world view, and he was eulogized as "the atheist's touchstone"
for the 20th century.

8. Clarence Darrow

[3419450352]Clarence Seward Darrow [1857-1938] was an American lawyer, a
leading member of the ACLU and a notable defense attorney. Starting out as a
corporate lawyer for a railroad company, he soon jumped the ideological tracks
and represented the leader of the American Railway Union in the Pullman Strike
of 1894.

His most famous case was the defense of Tennessee teacher John Scopes in the
"Monkey Trial" against the state law that barred the teaching of evolution. The
prosecution side was argued by William Jennings Bryan, the the trial served as
the story for the play and later film, Inherit the Wind. During the trial
Darrow self-identified as an agnostic by saying, "I do not consider it an
insult, but rather a compliment to be called an agnostic. I do not pretend to
know where many ignorant men are sure - that is all that agnosticism means."
Yet he wrote essays with titles like "Absurdities of the Bible" and "The Myth
of the Soul," suggesting that his agnosticism was strong enough to be
considered atheism.

9. Richard Strauss

[3422378674]Richard Georg Strauss [1864-1949] was a brilliant German composer
who began writing music at the age of six and continued almost until his death.
He was noted for his "tone poems" and operas such as Salome and Elektra, which
made use of dissonance and generated much public outcry. During the Nazi period
he was appointed president of the German State Music Bureau and composed the
theme song for the infamous 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin. He produced the
opera Friedenstag in 1938, a thinly veiled criticism of the Third Reich. He is
said to have stretched his influence very thin in his efforts to protect his
son and Jewish daughter-in-law and their children from the Nazis.

Strauss was dubious of all religion, except perhaps the religion of reason. "I
shall never be converted, and I shall remain true to my old religion of the
classics until my life's end," he declared shortly before his death.

10. Bertrand Russell

[3419450354]Bertrand Arthur William Russell [1872-1970], 3rd Earl of Russell,
was a British philosopher, logician, mathematician, historian, pacifist and
social activist. Russell led the revolt against idealism in the early 20th
century and is considered along with Wittgenstein and Frege a founder of
analytic philosophy, which considers formal logic and science as the principal
tools of philosophy. Russell was awarded the Nobel Prize for literature in
1950.

Russell was not fond of organized religion, but expressed some difficulty in
defining himself as an agnostic or an atheist. In his 1949 speech, "Am I an
Atheist or an Agnostic?" Russell admitted that he could not prove the
non-existence of God any more than he could prove the non-existence of the
Homeric gods. But in his autobiography he stated, "At the age of eighteen, ...I
read Mill's Autobiography, where I found a sentence to the effect that his
father taught him the question "Who made me?" cannot be answered, since it
immediately suggests the further question "Who made God?" This led me to
abandon the "First Cause" argument, and to become an atheist."

11. Jawaharlal Nehru

[3421200173]Jawaharlal Nehru [1889-1964] was a follower of Mahatma Gandhi,
Nehru rose to leadership of the Indian National Congress at a young age in part
due to his charisma and advocacy of complete Indian independence from the
British Empire. He was the first and longest serving Prime Minister of an
Independent India from 1947 to 1964. His appreciation for parliamentary
democracy and concern for the poor allowed him to formulate policies derided by
some for their socialist leanings.

Nehru enjoyed the honorific title of "Scholar" and despite his family's Hindi
religious background, was an atheist. Forging am independent, modern India
where educational and social opportunities could been afforded to all citizens
regardless of religion or caste, this rejection of any particular belief system
in a region hosting such wide diversity no doubt helped him toward his
considerable accomplishments.

12. Linus Pauling

[3418397571]Linus Carl Pauling [1901-1994] was one of the most influential
chemists in history as well as one of the most important scientists of the 20th
century - or, according to Gautam Desiraju who wrote the Millennium Essay in
the journal Nature, one of the greatest thinkers and visionaries of the last
thousand years. One of only 4 individuals ever to have won solo Nobel Prizes in
separate and unrelated fields - for chemistry in 1954, and the Nobel Peace
Prize for his tireless campaign against atmospheric nuclear bomb testing in
1962. His activities in favor of pacifism and against nuclear weapons earned
him an appearance before the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee, which
explicitly accused him of being in league with the Communists.

Pauling's wife Ava Hellen, whom he married in 1917, was a pacifist and peace
activist who got him involved in the crusade against nuclear weapons and
atmospheric bomb testing. He had been raised Lutheran and later joined the
Unitarian Universalist Church, but publicly declared his personal atheism two
years before his death of prostate cancer at the age of 93.

13. Paul Dirac

[3418856298]Paul Adrien Maurice Dirac [1902-1984] was a British theoretical
physicist who contributed to the early development of quantum mechanics and
quantum electrodynamics [QED]. He shared the 1933 Nobel Prize in physics with
Erwin Schrodinger, formulated what became known as the Dirac equation, and held
the Cambridge Lucasian Chair in mathematics established by Sir Isaac Newton and
currently held by Stephen Hawking.

Dirac was noted for his personal humility, refusing to call his contributions
to physics by his own name, and for his somewhat Edwardian sense of social
propriety. He married Margrit, the sister of fellow Nobel laureate Eugene
Wigner, in 1937. He adopted her two children and the couple had two more. While
he once said that "God used beautiful mathematics in creatiing the world," his
personal views on religion were far less expansive. Wolfgang Pauli once
described Dirac's first commandment concerning religion as, "God does not exist
and Paul Dirac is his prophet."

14. Ayn Rand

[3441967019]Ayn Rand [1905-1982] was a Russian-born writer who emigrated to the
U.S. in 1925. Her first play, Night of January 16th, was produced in Hollywood
and then on Broadway. Her autobiographical and anti-Soviet novel We the Living,
was published in 1936. Best known for her sweeping intellectual masterpiece
Atlas Shrugged, the fiction mystery allowed her to fully develop her philosophy
of objectivism.

For the rest of her life Rand lectured and wrote about objectivism, which she
termed "a philosophy for living on earth." All of the books Rand published
during her lifetime are still in print, and her philosophy is still taught at
many major universities as one of the most important philosophical movements in
the modern world. Objectivism is particularly prized by dedicated capitalists
and economists and underpins much of the wider freethought movement.

15. Katherine Hepburn

[3421200163]Katherine Houghton Hepburn [1907-2003] was an acclaimed actress in
film, television and stage for 73 years of her long life. She received 12
Academy Award nominations for Best Actress in a film, and still holds the
record with four wins. In 1999 the American Film Institute ranked Hepburn as
cinema history's greatest female star. A child of New England privilege with a
genealogical heritage tracing back to Louis IX of France, she received her
degree in history and philosophy from Bryn Mawr despite a record of breaking
curfew, smoking and skinny dipping in the fountain. She married socialite
businessman Ludlow Ogden Smith in 1928, but divorced six years later. Despite
several romances, the love of her live was Spencer Tracy, with whom she made
nine movies.

In a 1973 interview on The Dick Cavett Show Hepburn said that while she agreed
with Christian principles and thought highly of Jesus Christ, she had no
personal religious beliefs nor any belief in an afterlife. "I am an atheist and
that's it. I believe there's nothing we can know except that we should be kind
to each other and do what we can for other people."

16. Jacques Monod

[3418856310]Jacques Lucien Monod [1910-1976] was a French biologist who
contributed greatly to the understanding of the Lac operon as a regulator of
gene transcription in cells, suggested the existence of mRNA molecules in the
process of protein synthesis, and further contributed to the field of
enzymology. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1965.
He married archeologist and orientalist Odette Bruhl in 1938, they had twin
sons, Oliver and Phillippe, one of whom became a geologist, the other a
physicist.

Monod wrote the book Chance and Necessity in 1970, which became a popular
primer on the relationship between the roles of random chance and adaptation in
biological evolution and provided much ammunition to the atheist community by
proposing that the natural sciences revealed an entirely purposeless world that
undermines the traditional claims of the world's religions. His views also
contributed to the development of the idea of "Memes" that Richard Dawkins made
famous in his writings.

17. Subrahmanyan Chandresekhar

[3418856290]Padma Vibhushan Subrahmanyan Chandresekhar [1910-1995] - better
known by his nickname "Chandra" - has a space-based X-ray observatory named
after him, launched by the space shuttle Columbia on July 23, 1999. Awarded the
Nobel Prize in Physics in 1983 for his important contributions to knowledge
about the evolution of stars, he is probably better known for his 1995 opus >
Newton's Principia for the Common Reader which explains the detailed arguments
of Newton's original Principia using the language and methods of ordinary
calculus.

A naturalized American citizen born in Lahore, India, Chandra's family long
displayed signs of brilliance, even genius. His father was a government worker
and accomplished violinist who wrote several books on musicology. His mother
was an intellectual noted for translating Ibsen's A Doll's House into the Tamil
language. His paternal uncle was physicist C.V. Raman, who also won a Nobel
Prize.

18. Alan Turing

[3422389826]Alan Mathison Turing [1912-1954] was a mathematician, logician,
computer scientist and cryptanalyst from England. He displayed distinct signs
of genius early in his life, solving advanced problems without having studied
elementary calculus. At the age of 16 he encountered Einstein's work and
extrapolated it to question Newton's laws of motion from a text in which this
challenge was not made explicit. Perhaps his most momentous achievement was his
1936 paper reformulating Kurt Godel's results on the limits of proof and
computation, replacing Godel's arithmetic-based formal language with what are
now known as Turing machines - formal and simple devices.

It was the death of Turing's first love in their last year at Sherborne from
complications of bovine tuberculosis (contracted from drinking infected milk as
a boy) that shattered Turing's religious faith. He became an atheist with a
firm conviction that all phenomena must be materialistic in nature.

19. Francis Crick

[3418878622]Francis Harry Compton Crick [1916-2004] is best known as the
co-discoverer of the structure of DNA. He first coined the term "central dogma"
to describe the flow of genetic information in cells as a one-way street - DNA
to RNA to protein. His primary interests encompassed two fundamental problems
in biology. How non-living molecules become living organisms, and how the human
brain creates a conscious mind.

On the matter of religion, Crick once said, "Christianity may be okay between
consenting adults in private, but should not be taught to young children." In
his book Of Molecules and Men he expressed his strong views on the relationship
between science and religion. Those views continued to play a role in his work
when he transitioned from molecular biology into theoretical neuroscience.

20. Claude Shannon

[3418314899]Claude Elwood Shannon [1916-2001] was an electronic engineer and
mathematician known as "the father of information theory." While at the
University of Michigan he was introduced to the works of George Boole, and once
in grad school at MIT working with the 'differential analyzer', an early analog
computer, he saw that Boole's concepts could be used used to simplify the
complicated circuitry of the analyzer and wrote his master's thesis on what
became known as Boolean logic. His PhD thesis at MIT applied this work to
establish mathematical relationships in Mendelian genetics. He became a
National Research Fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, and
worked freely across disciplines with other notable scientists to shape the
ideas that became information theory.

Shannon and his wife Betty put their collective mathematical and analytical
abilities together in a game theory for many successful visits to the gaming
tables in Las Vegas and made a fortune. An even bigger fortune was made later
by Shannon and colleague Ed Thorp when they applied the same theory (later
known as the Kelly criterion) to the stock market.

21. Richard Feynman

[3418856304]Richard Phillips Feynman [1918-1988] contributed much to the
development of quantum mechanics, including what became known as Feynman
diagrams, the path integral formulation, the theory of quantum electrodynamics
[QED], the physics supercooled liquid helium's superfluidity, and the parton
model of particle physics. He won the Nobel Prize in 1965 for QED and became
one of the best known scientists in the world through his popular books and
lectures about physics and about his own storied life.

Among his colleagues he was perhaps better known as a beatnik and clown, always
thinking up clever pranks or juggling or sitting in with any impromptu band
playing bongos. Some of his other interests were painting, biology, Mayan
hieroglyphics and lock-picking. He was dubbed the "Great Explainer" for two
masterful lecture series on physics at Cal Tech (which were later turned into
the books Six Easy Pieces and Six Not So Easy Pieces. He developed two rare
forms of cancer late in his life, complaining that, "I'd hate to die twice.
It's so boring." In the end, he died after surgery for only one of them.

22. Noam Chomsky

[3441826007]Avram Noam Chomsky [b. 1928] is one of the most notable American
philosophers of any age. Professor emeritus of linguistics at MIT, and is
considered a father of modern linguistics. Also a prolific writer, he has also
become famous for being an outspoken political dissident, anarchist, humanist
freethinker and libertarian socialist.

Beginning with his 1959 critique of B.F. Skinner's behaviorist theory of
language, Chomsky has iterated and refined his own theory of linguistics as a
branch of cognitive psychology. This view drew much criticism from
behaviorists, particularly his hypothesis that humans share an innate
linguistic capability. On his views of religion, Chomsky said in a Common Sense
interview in 2002, "...if you ask me whether or not I'm an atheist, I wouldn't
even answer. I would first want an explanation of what it is that I'm supposed
not to believe in, and I've never seen an explanation."

23. James D. Watson

[3424632064]James Dewey Watson [b. 1928] received the Nobel Prize in physiology
or medicine in 1962 as co-discoverer along with Francis Crick and Maurice
Wilkins of the molecular structure of DNA. Watson began his Ph.D. research with
Salvador Luria, who later earned his own Nobel for work with Max Delbruck on
phages. It was from this association with the leaders of the "Phage Group" of
molecular biologists that he became involved in the search for the nature of
genes. He earned that Ph.D. in zoology from Indiana University at the age of
22.

Watson was politically active in opposition to the war in Vietnam and nuclear
proliferation, active in environmentalism. When asked by a student if he
believed in God, Watson answered, "Oh, no. Absolutely not... The biggest
advantage to believing in God is you don't have to understand anything, no
physics, no biology. I wanted to understand."

24. Peter Higgs

[3421200167]Peter Ware Higgs [b. 1929] is a theoretical physicist and emeritus
professor at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland. He is a recipient of the
1997 Dirac Medal and Prize for outstanding contributions to theoretical
physics, the High Energy and Particle Physics Prize by the European Physical
Society, and the Wolf Prize in physics. If his predicted Higgs particle - the
field boson imparting mass to matter - is discovered as expected by the Large
Hadron Collider at CERN and he is still alive, Higgs is expected to receive the
Nobel Prize in physics within the year.

Higgs describes himself as an atheist, but expresses discomfort with one of the
designations of his field boson, the "God Particle." That designation was
popularized by Nobel Laureate Leon Lederman in his book by that title,
published in 1993 as part of a PR campaign in favor of the proposed
Superconducting Super Collider [SSC] proposed to be built in Texas. Higgs lives
a reserved life and is not anxious to offend religious believers.

25. Warren Buffet

[3421200157]Warren Edward Buffett [b. 1930] is an American businessman and CEO
of Berkshire Hathaway rated by Forbes as the richest person in the world (in
the first half of 2008, before the Wall Street meltdown). He is noted for
adherence to the philosophy of "value investing" and for accepting an annual
salary for himself of less than $200,000. Compare that to what taxpayers are
now paying the CEOs of failed Wall Street investment firms!

Buffett is further noted for his philanthropy, a passion he shares with fellow
billionaire Bill Gates, along with a weekly bridge play date. In 2006 Buffett
announced that 83% of his fortune would be going to the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation for further philanthropy. He describes himself as religiously
agnostic. In Roger Lowenstein's 1995 biography Buffett: The Making of an
American Capitalist, he is described and non-religious. "He adopted his
father's ethical underpinnings, but not his belief in an unseen divinity."

26. John Searle

[3441967043]John Rogers Searle [b. 1932] is an American philosopher whose
contributions to the philosophy of mind, philosophy of language and social
philosophy made him an influential member and spokesperson for the Free Speech
Movement in Berkeley during the late 1960s and early '70s.

Drawing upon his theory of intentionality, Searle argued in his 1992 book The
Rediscovery of the Mind that much of modern philosophy has attempted to deny
the existence of consciousness, with little success among conscious people. The
primary issue Searle identifies is a philosophical false dichotomy between
strong materialism and subjective, first-person experience of the world. What
emerged from his resolution is a view he calls "biological naturalism" - that
consciousness is real, caused by the physical processes of the brain. Searle is
regarded as an atheist who believes in freedom of will and has argued
eloquently (and controversially) for that position.

27. Steven Weinberg

[3422378678]Steven Weinberg [b. 1933] is an American physicist best known for
his work on unification of electromagnetism and the weak force, for which he
shared the Nobel Prize in physics in 1979. It was as a visiting professor at
MIT in 1967 that he first proposed his electroweak unification theory, which
predicted the existence of the Z boson and the existence of a mechanism of mass
later known as the Higgs boson. In 1973 he proposed a modification of the
Standard Model of physics did not predict the Higgs, but there is as yet no
consensus.

Weinberg has been prominent in the science vs. religion 'culture wars'. His
popular science books and articles combine explaining science in the added
context of history, philosophy of science, and atheism. In a 1999 speech in
Washington, D.C., he said, "With or without religion, good people can behave
well and bad people can do evil; but for good people to do evil - that takes
religion."

28. Carl Sagan

[3423778807]Carl Edward Sagan [1934-1996] was an American astronomer,
astrochemist, and successful popularizer of science.Sagan was connected to the
American space program from the beginning, working as an advisor to NASA from
the 1950s. He contributed to many of the robotic missions that explored the
solar system and arranged experiments to be conducted during manned moon
missions. He designed the gold placque attached to the Pioneer 10 and 11
spacecraft, a message that could be understood by an extraterrestrial
intelligence that encountered it.

Sagan was an outspoken opponent of nuclear weapons and starred in the popular
PBS television series Cosmos: A Personal Voyage. Noted as a skeptic who
advocated for humanist ideals, the public considered him an atheist. Sagan
called himself an agnostic instead, explaining that "an atheist has to know a
lot more than I know" in order to make a positive assertion that no deity
exists.

29. David Suzuki

[3424632060]David Takayoshi Suzuki [b. 1936] is a Canadian zoologist,
geneticist, science broadcaster and entironmental activist. His work in
television began in 1970 with the weekly children's series, Suzuki on Science,
going on to host CBC's The Nature of Things and the acclaimed PBS series A
Planet for the Taking. He also worked in radio, hosting CBC Radio One's Quirks
and Quarks, and a weekly program for more mature audiences called Science
Magazine. He has also written several books about science and environmentalism,
is an outspoken critic of global climate change corporate deniers and
established the David Suzuki Foundation to promote sustainability.

Though he has been often accused by his critics of turning his environmental
causes into a religion of its own, Suzuki describes himself in his
autobiography as an atheist with no illusions about life and death.

30. George Carlin

[3441825993]George Denis Patrick Carlin [1937-2008] was one of the most popular
and controversial comedians during his lifetime, having won five Grammy awards
for his comedy albums. He was the very first guest host for Saturday Night Live
and is considered one of the most brilliant satirists of American culture. He
was most noted for his focus on psychology, religion, the English language and
any other subject that might shock and delight his audiences. He came in second
on the Comedy Central network's list of 100 Greatest Comedians of all time.

Just four days before his death the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
announced that he would receive the Mark Twain Prize for American Humor. An
outspoken atheist, Carlin joked in his book Brain Droppings that he worshipped
the sun because he could actually see it. He also introduced in an HBO special
the "Two Commandments," a condensed version of the ten ending with one
additional commandment, "Thou Shalt keep thy religiion to thyself."

31. Bruce Lee

[3441825989]Bruce Jun Fan Lee [1940- 1973] was an American born Chinese martial
artist, philosopher, instructor and actor, the founder of the Jeet Kune Do
combat form. When he turned to development of his martial arts form in the
1960s, he also became notable for his views and practices of promoting peak
physical fitness with proper training, diet and vitamin supplements.
Bodybuilder Arnold Schwarzenegger was influenced by Lee, described his physique
as defined, with very little body fat. "I mean, he probably had one of the
lowest body fat counts of any athlete. And I think that's why he looked so
unbelievable."

Lee had majored in philosophy at the University of Washington and kept an
extensive library of philosophy. His first book expressed a well-developed
philosophical outlook and was entitled Chinese Gung-Fu: The Philosophical Art
of Self Defense. As he developedJeet Kune Do he cited influence from Taoism,
Jiddu Krishnamurti and Buddhism, but was himself an atheist who expressed
disbelief in God.

32. Leonard Susskind

[3422378676]Leonard Susskind [b. 1940] is an American physicist specializing in
string theory and quantum field theory. He is Felix Bloch professor of
theoretical physics at Stanford. He is a notable promoter of public
understanding of science, and his entire course on quantum physics can be
downloaded on the iTunes platform from Stanford. His contrubutions to
theoretical physics are voluminous, including the independent discovery of
string theory, the theory of quark confinement, the development of Hamiltonian
lattice gauge theory, the holography principle, the string theory of black hole
entropy and the principle of "black hole complementarity."

Susskind is also a popular speaker for both science and against religious
creationism. In a review of the book, The Cosmic Landscape: String Theory and
the Illusion of Intelligent Design, Michael Duff wrote that Susskind is "a
card-carrying atheist."

33. Stephen Jay Gould

[3423778789]Stephen Jay Gould [1941-2002] was a paleontologist, evolutionary
biologist and historian of science who became one of the most influential
popularizers of evolutionary biology through his books and essays. Though a
critic of the deterministic view of human behavior and society, he contributed
much to expanding upon the mechanisms of natural evolution. He generated some
controversy with A Scientific Dissent from Darwinism, taking issue with the
gradualism and reductionism of orthodox neodarwinists. He contributed
"Punctuated Equilibrium" to the evolutionary lexicon to explain the fossil
evidence of abrupt changes in organismic form interspersed with long periods of
stability.

Himself an atheist, Gould was an advocate for what he called "Non-Overlapping
Magisteria" [NOMA] as a way to resolve the conflicts between science and
religion. "Science and religion occupy two separate realms of human
experience," he wrote in Rock of Ages. "Demanding that they be combined
detracts from the glory of each."

34. Richard Dawkins

[3418083757]Clinton Richard Dawkins [b. 1941] is the most prominent scientific
atheist in the world today, and was the Simonyi Professor for the Public
Understanding of Science at Oxford until his retirement in 2008. Dawkins'
particular brilliance is not so much reflected in radical discoveries in his
field of biology, but in his popular science writings like his books The
Selfish Gene and The Extended Phenotype. He has been called "Darwin's
Rottweiler" in the press for his strong support of evolution by natural
selection. He has also written against creationism in the book The Blind
Watchmaker and against theism in A Devil's Chaplain and The God Delusion, both
popular best-sellers.

An engaging and energetic speaker, Dawkins promotes atheism as senior editor
and columnist for the Council for Secular Humanism's Free Inquiry magazine, and
as a member of the editorial board of Skeptic magazine since it was founded.
In2006 Dawkins founded the Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science,
and in 2007 founded the atheist "Out" campaign, and in 2008 he supported the
Atheist Bus Campaign, Britain's first atheist advertising blitz.

35. Daniel Dennett

[3441967003]Daniel Clement Dennett [b. 1942] is an American philosopher
specializing in the philosophies of mind, science and biology. Dennett's father
was a spy for the OSS, disguised as a cultural attache in Beirut during WW-2.
He died in a plane crash in 1947 and the family moved back to the U.S. Dennett
enjoyed study under a number of notable philosophers at Harvard and Oxford, and
is currently a professor of philosophy and co-director of the Center for
Cognitive Studies at Tufts University.

Dennett's popular work in philosophy of mind and cognitive science, the books
Content and Consciousness and Consciousness Explained reflect an expansive and
detailed development of his philosophical ideas that have generated some heated
debates among his peers. In the book Breaking the Spell Dennett examines
religious beliefs from an evolutionary point of view as social adaptations that
conveyed selective advantages to the species.

36. Stephen Hawking

[3424395337]Stephen William Hawking [b. 1942] is the Lucasian Professor of
Mathematics at Cambridge, a position once held by Sir Isaac Newton. He is
recognized as one of the most creatively intelligent people of the modern
scientific age, best known his contributions to the fields of cosmology,
quantum gravity and general relativity, as well as for his best-selling popular
science books. He developed ALS (Lou Gehrig's disease) in graduate school in
Cambridge and has survived with the condition longer than was thought possible.
he has almost no neuromuscular control and must communicate via a speech
synthesizer.

Hawking sometimes comes across quite like a deist in his popular writings,
particularly in the book, A Brief History of Time, in which most of the
questions posed of the universe also echo questions traditionally asked of God.
In that book Hawking expounded upon his "no boundary" model by stating, "If the
no boundary proposal is correct, He [God] had no freedom at all to choose
initial conditions.". While he does not publicly profess atheism, Hawking does
profess agnosticism.

37. Mick Jagger

[3424395343]Sir Michael Philip "Mick" Jagger [b. 1943] was expected by his
family to become a teacher, like his father and grandfather, but what he really
loved to do was sing. He was a capable student and went to the London School of
Economics on scholarship. In his off time he took to being a pick-up singer in
London's club scene, developing a small fan following even though he had no
formal musical training. He left school at 19 to follow his musical ambitions.
He and friends Keith Richards and Brian Jones formed a band called the Rolling
Stones, and the rest is history.

Having become one of the wealthiest musicians in the world - and a Knight of
the Realm as of 2003 as well - Jagger founded his own film company with
Victoria Pearman in 1995, Jagged Films. A notorious womanizer, Jagger has seven
children by 4 women (two of whom he married), and four grandchildren. Not bad
for a fabulously wealthy, world famous economics school dropout.

38. Richard Leakey

[3422378668]Richard Erskine Frere Leakey [b. 1944] was born in Nairobi, Kenya,
one of three sons of noted archaeologists Louis and Mary Leakey. By 1962 he'd
earned a private pilot's license and began offering aerial tours of Olduvai.
Noting a potential fossil bed, he went back with an associate of his father's
and was given the funding for a month's dig. Soon he and his business partner
Kimoya Kameu discovered Australopithecus boisei. His storied career has been
set with his accomplishments as a conservationist, a promoter of civil rights
and a supporter of the Kenyan Safina Party.

In a 2007 interview upon his induction into the Academy of Achievement for his
contributions to paleoanthropology and environmentalism he said, "I simply
would not accede to being forced into this, and would frequently be kept out of
classes because of irreverent comments and mocking this religious stuff.
Frankly, it stayed with me to this day. In fact, don't get me going. I'm almost
as bad as Richard Dawkins on this issue."

39. David Gilmour

[3424395333]David Jon Gilmour [b. 1946] of the legendary rock group Pink Floyd
was born in Cambridge, England, son of a senior lecturer in zoology at
Cambridge University. His interest in music, writing and a life on the road led
him into musical and busking adventures during the early 1960s, and finally to
Pink Floyd in 1967, which went on to become one of the top grossing rock bands
in history. On his 60th birthday he released his third solo album, On An
Island, which debuted #1 on the UK charts.

Gilmour has a penchant for philanthropy, support which includes housing funds
for the homeless, Oxfam, Greenpeace, Amnesty International, the Lung Foundation
and others. He was made a Commander in the Order of the British Empire in 2005,
an honor just below full knighthood. His On An Island has been called "the most
spiritual album ever made by an avowed atheist."

40. Brian Eno

[3424395329]Brian Peter George St. John le Baptiste de la Salle Eno [b. 1948]
is an English musician, composer, record producer, music theorist and singer
best known as the father of ambient music. Starting with the art rock band Roxy
Music in 1971, he became bored with the rock and roll lifestyle quickly. He
then became a prominent member of the performance art/classical music orchestra
the Portsmouth Sinfonia from 1972-74, and developed his highly eclectic,
ambient style in a series of solo albums.

As a producer he contributed to recordings by Genesis, David Bowie, Zvuki Mu
and Robert Calvert. He composed and performed the "Prophesy Theme" for David
Lynch's Dune, and produced Laurie Anderson's Bright Red album, among many other
projects in music, performance and fine art, literature, theatrical soundscapes
and sound bytes for iPhone, Windows and video games. When not being a prolific
and brilliant artist, Eno is politically active, a humanist with strong
anti-war and futurist views.

41. David Sloan Wilson

[3421200161]David Sloan Wilson [b. 1949] is SUNY Distinguished Professor of
Biology and Anthropology at Binghamton University in New York, a prolific
popular science writer, and a promoter of evolution by group and multi-level
selection. He has been vice president of the American Society of Naturalists
and serves on the editorial board of the Human Behavior and Evolution Society.
In his Evolutionary Studies program at Binghamton students study not only the
sciences related to evolution, but also religion and the psychology of religion
in terms of evolution.

Wilson, who describes himself as a "nice atheist," views religions as a sort of
mega-trait that evolved because it conferred advantages on believers. He
explored this theme in his book, Darwin's Cathedral: Evolution, Religion and
the Nature of Society. Not a supporter of Richard Dawkins' public efforts to
organize atheists, Wilson described atheism as a "Stealth Religion" on the
political blog Huffington Post in 2007.

42. Steve Wozniak

[3424632068]Stephen Gary "Woz" Wozniak [b. 1950] is a computer engineer who
founded the Apple computer company with Steve Jobs. The two became friends
while working on a mainframe during the summer of 1970. The two sold some
possessions to raise $1,300, assembled the first prototypes in Job's garage.
They formed the company on April 1, 1976 and priced their Apple I personal
computer at $666.66 - Woz later claimed he had no idea about the correlation
with the mark of the beast).

Wozniak is a committed philanthropist, funding various educational projects,
and has even taught fifth graders. Since leaving Apple he founded other
ventures to produce things like the first universal remote and wireless GPS.
He's a member of the Silicon Valley Aftershocks Segway polo team, which won the
2008 Woz Challenge Cup. Woz calls himself "atheist or agnostic," in that he
says he doesn't know the difference between the designations.

43. Douglas Adams

[3441967049]Douglas Noel Adams [1952-2001] was an English writer, dramatist and
musician, best known for his Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy series. He also
wrote three episodes of the BBC series Doctor Who for his friend Russell T
Davies and served as script editor during the seventh season. He further wrote
for and appeared in Monty Python's Flying Circus, and counted Pink Floyd
guitarist David Gilmour among his closest friends.

A notable environmental activist and self-described "radical atheist," Adams
loved fast cars, cool cameras, Apple computers and any tech gizmo he could get
his hands on. Richard Dawkins dedicated his book The God Delusion to Adams. A
veteran of many different day jobs, Adams once worked as a bodyguard for a
Qatar oil family and told hilarious stories about his misadventures. He was
locked in a hotel suite by his editor for three weeks to force him to complete
his book So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish, he was a bit notorious for his
deadline difficulties.

44. Steven Pinker

[3423778801]Steven Arthur Pinker [b. 1954] is an experimental psychologist and
cognitive scientist best known for his advocacy of evolutionary psychology and
the computational theory of mind. He is also known for his controversial
positions on issues like eugenics and euthanasia. He is a best-selling author
of popular science books as well as a popular speaker. He describes the human
mind as a sort of Swiss Army knife that comes with specialized tools designed
to deal with problems our Pleistocene ancestors encountered.

Pinker's works on how children acquire language echoes Noam Chomsky's work on
language as an innate faculty of mind. Pinker argues that many other human
mental faculties are adaptive in an evolutionary sense and can be understood
best from that angle. Born into the Jewish community in Montreal, he became an
atheist at the age of 13 but remains a "cultural Jew."

45. PZ Myers

[3424395351]Paul Zachary Myers [b. 1957], better known as "PZ," is an
evolutionary developmental biologist and professor of biology at the University
of Minnesota, Morris. He is an energetic promoter of science generally and
evolution in particular. He got involved in the use of the internet for this
purpose and was a founding member of the pro-evolution website The Panda's
Thumb, and created his own web blog, Pharyngula, in 2002. PZ Myers has become
the leader of the science-focused online atheist movement and his brilliance as
an atheist might be said to be the remarkable success he has had in this
position.

Pharyngula received the Koufax Award in 2005 for 'Best Expert Blog', and Nature
named it the top ranking blog written by a scientist. It was picked up by Seed
Magazine that year and anchors their large stable of popular, multidisciplinary
science blogs. His increasing popularity as a proponent of atheism have made
him a popular speaker at freethought, atheist and humanist events.

46. Jodie Foster

[3441967011]Alicia Christian Foster [b. 1962] is an American film actor,
director and producer who has won three Bafta Awards, two Golden Globes, a
Screen Actors Guild Award, a People's Choice Award, and two Emmy nominations
for her extensive body of work. She began her career as a child star who later
made the transition to adult stardom and expanded from there to produce some of
the most popular and thought-provoking films of the last decades.

In 1997 she starred in the movie adaptation of Contact, a novel by Carl Sagan.
The following year an asteroid was named in her honor. At the age of 14 she
starred in the movie Taxi Driver, for which she was nominated for an Academy
Award. This earned her the obsessed attention of would-be Presidential assassin
John Hinckley Jr. who stalked her while she was attending Yale. Foster is an
atheist who celebrates both Christmas and Hannukah with her two sons, and
claims great respect for all religions.

47. Russell T Davies

[3441826035]Stephen Russell Davies [b. 1963] is a Welsh writer and producer of
the modern version of the popular science fiction television series Doctor Who.
A fan of the good doctor since childhood, his writing and direction of the new
series has won critical acclaim and a new generation of fans. In 2005, Davies
was tapped to write and produce a more adult spinoff called Torchwood, which
featured darker science fiction drama and more sex and which Davies described
as "The X-Files meets This Life."

Davies was named the most influential gay person in Britain in 2006, spent
several years on the top 100 list of influential media figures, and was named
an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in 2008. His 2008 book Doctor
Who: The Writer's Tale is a collection of autobiographical emails between
Davies and journalist Benjamin Cook that has been described as "...a funny,
revealing insight into the workings of the genius" behind the beloved Doctor
Who.

48. David Chalmers

[3441826003]David John Chalmers [b. 1966] Is an Australian philosopher,
director of the Center for Consciousness and past director of the Center for
Consciousness Studies at the University of Arizona in the U.S. His 1996 book
The Conscious Mind is considered a seminal work on consciousness and its
relation to issues in the philosophy of mind, even by its physicalist
detractors. Chalmers argues for an essentially dualistic view of mind which he
terms, "naturalistic dualism."

Chalmers sits on the editorial board of the Journal of Consciousness Studies
and his paper published there characterizing the mind-body problem in terms of
philosophical zombies generated more than twenty response papers from such
notables as Daniel Dennett, Francisco Varela, Francis Crick and Roger Penrose,
and the exchanges are still among the most valuable literature debating the
philosophy of consciousness ever generated.

49. Sean Carroll

[3424395391]Sean M. Carroll [b. 1966] is a theoretical cosmologist specializing
in general relativity and dark energy. Currently he is a Senior Research
Associate in Physics at Caltech, writes scientific books and textbooks in his
areas of expertise, contributes to the blog Cosmic Variance, writes articles
for science magazines such as Nature, Seedm and and is a popular presenter and
lecturer at scientific symposia.

Carroll is perhaps better known for his strong advocacy of atheism, once going
so far as to turn down an invitation to speak at a conference sponsored by the
John Templeton Foundation because he didn't want to be seen as advocating a
reconciliation between science and religion. He argues that scientific thinking
must lead to a materialistic world view and a rejection of all notions of deity
or spiritual nature. Which is why, Carroll wrote in 2003, (Almost All)
Cosmologists are Atheists.

50. Mark Zuckerberg

[3441967047]Mark Elliot Zuckerberg [b. 1984] is an American computer programmer
named by Time Magazine as one of the World's Most Influential People in 2008
for his development of the internet application Facebook. While attending
Phillips Exeter Academy he developed an AI program called Synapse that both
Microsoft and AOL attempted to purchase as part of recruitment efforts, but he
determined to attend Harvard instead.

Zuckerberg launched Facebook from his Harvard dorm room in 2004. It spread to
other universities with the help of his roommate Dustin Moskovitz. Despite some
controversy over the platform and a lawsuit over the ConnectU application which
was later dismissed, Zuckerman sold a 1.6% stake in Facebook to Microsoft,
which had a $15 billion market value at the time according to Forbes. He was
born into the Jewish tradition, yet self-identifies as an atheist.

  • life,
  • history,
  • religion,
  • usd,
  • russell t davies,
  • leader,
  • nature,
  • writer,
  • london,
  • teacher,
  • physics,
  • andrew carnegie,
  • cyrene,
  • ivan petrovich pavlov,
  • sigmund freud,
  • athens,
  • clarence seward darrow,
  • ivan pavlov,
  • richard georg strauss,
  • clarence darrow,
  • richard strauss,
  • carl pauling,
  • francis crick

Related Articles

  • The 15 Most Notorious Pirates of All Time
  • 10 Things We Wish Had Never Been Invented
  • The 10 All Time Best Answers To: Why?
  • 42.0 Milestones in the History of Marijuana
  • The 25 Worst Riots of All Time

View AllFeatured in Life

  • How to Manage Rejection in 10 Steps
  • 60 Great Pick Up Lines: Most Original, Ordinary, and Outrageous
  • 16 Victims of the Church of Scientology
  • The 25 Worst Riots of All Time
  • 10 Deadliest Tsunamis in Living Memory
  • 119 Ways to Store and Organize Your Cats
  • 15 Bizarre Human Activities

View the discussion thread.

blog comments powered by Disqus

[ai]

Featured in Life

  • How to Manage Rejection in 10 Steps

    Contrary to how terrible rejection feels, rejection is an integral aspect
    of...

  • 60 Great Pick Up Lines: Most Original, Ordinary, and Outrageous

    Today's dating game is a bit overwhelming. Whether you're new to the
    game,...

  • 16 Victims of the Church of Scientology

    For the past 56 years the Church of Scientology has blazed a path of
    headlines...

Most Popular Today

10 Psychological Experiments That Went Horribly Wrong

  • Comments
  • Read more

The 20 Best Cartoons of the 90's

  • Comments
  • Read more

25 Best iPhone Music Apps

  • Comments
  • Read more

10 Greatest Unsolved Mysteries

  • Comments
  • Read more

The 15 Most Brutal Methods of Execution of All Time

  • Comments
  • Read more

Top Breaking News

Jessica Alba Naked Photos Leaked

  • Comments
  • Read more

Nicki Minaj Sextape Leaked (Photos)

  • Comments
  • Read more

The 50 Most Popular Women on the Web

  • Comments
  • Read more

Kat Dennings Ultra Hot Naked Photos Leaked

  • Comments
  • Read more

Naked TSA Airport Security Body Scans Leak Online

  • Comments
  • Read more

Latest Articles

Top 10 High Quality Treadmills

  • Comments
  • Read more

10 Best Coffee Makers

  • Comments
  • Read more

10 Best Science Gifts for Kids

  • Comments
  • Read more

10 Best Tablets This Holiday Season

  • Comments
  • Read more

10 Best Men’s Winter Boots

  • Comments
  • Read more

Beyond Monopoly: The 15 Greatest Board Games of All Time

  • Comments
  • Read more

10 Best Dollhouses for Girls

  • Comments
  • Read more

10 Best Women's Winter Boots

  • Comments
  • Read more

Choosing the Best Binoculars for Versatile Wildlife Viewing

  • Comments
  • Read more

10 of the Best Online Healthcare Administration Degree Programs

  • Comments
  • Read more

[ai]

Channels

  • Autos
  • DIY / Hobbies
  • Education
  • Entertainment
  • Finance
  • Health

  • Life
  • Politics
  • Science
  • Sports
  • Technology
  • Song Lyrics
  • Quotes

What’s New

  • Latest Article
  • Most Popular Article
  • Random Article
  • Fact of the Day

Contribute

  • Submit Tip
  • Report Spam

Copyright 2009-2010 Brainz.org All Rights Reserved

Performancing Metrics

