330m

There have been an estimated 330 Million gods worshiped throughout history. And
YOUR god is the right one?
[cropped-turtles]
Skip to content

  • Home
  • About 330M

← Older posts

Gays “hate” god(s) – another American Family Association projection

Posted on May 31, 2013 by 330M Administrator

So, from Kevin McCullough, the new host of Today’s Issues program from the
American Family Association, courtesy of Right Wing Watch:

    While discussing the Boy Scouts of America’s decision to include gay
    members under the age of eighteen, McCullough claimed that gay people hate
    God: “One thing that is absolutely true is that people that live active and
    activist homosexual lifestyles absolutely, rigidly hate the God of
    Scripture. There is no doubt about that, they absolutely do. People that
    struggle with it and try to work it out, they’re in a different category.
    But the people that are activists about it, they despise the God of the
    Bible and there is nothing short of that that can be understood.”

Continue reading →

Posted in American Family Association, atheist | Leave a comment

Happy Zombie Jesus Day – or Google doing it right

Posted on March 31, 2013 by 330M Administrator

Put away the fish sammiches, it’s Zombie Jesus Day! I’ll be spending mine at
home with my family, engaging in a little debauchery like board games, dirt
bikes, movies (Shaun of the Dead anyone?), and imbibing on copious amounts of
fermented grapes and distilled  grains. California origins for the
former…Kentucky origins for the latter. Saving my highland single malts for a
more important day. Continue reading →

Posted in Bible, Dogma, Religion | Tagged easter, FLDS, FOX news, zombie jesus 
| Leave a comment

punchline in need of a joke

Posted on March 10, 2013 by 330M Administrator

I just thought of a great punch line in need of a joke: “Altar boys in burqas”
Someone help me out here…

Posted in atheism, Funny, Religion | Tagged altar boy | 4 Comments

Islam, the religion of nothing

Posted on March 10, 2013 by 330M Administrator

It’s been a while since nothing has happened to those who killed Hena Akhter.
Daily, nothing happens and is joined by other first-world problems like not
having a spare spark plug for the lawnmower (oh, the humanity!), McDonalds
wrappers left strewn about, and the X-Box “Ring of Death”. Meanwhile, the same
nothing continues to plague the monolithic Islamic, fatwah-spewing,
woman-despising  mullahs, and, like the Roman Catholic church, nothing will
continue to be the best way forward in addressing modern needs in modern times.

For those who don’t want to take the link from above, Hena Akhter was killed
while being caned for being the victim of a rape, since she was guilty of
allowing a man who is not her relative to see and use her genitals against her
will. Instead of learning a lesson about how woefully out-of-touch the religion
and its teachings are over things like a woman’s role in rape, the leaders of
this backwards, bigoted, and destructive religion continue to sentence girls to
caning for things they are not capable of doing, or things that were forced
upon them. What. The. Fuck. For fuck’s sake, (in mohammed’s name), why must a
girl in the Maldives be sentenced to 100 lashes for ‘fornication’ – the
fornication brought on by years of sexual abuse at the hands of her step-father
with the knowing approval of this girl’s mother? What did she do? Forget to
take out the trash one night? Was her burqa improperly showing too much eyelid?

Shit like this has to stop. If there was any truth to the xtian religion,
Zombie Jesus would put that religion out of its and everyone else’s misery.
Since there’s not, I join Christopher Hitchen’s desire to turn the middle east
into glass. By now, it is far too obvious that Islam cannot change.

Posted in Dogma, Islam, Religion | Leave a comment

Hey, gun nuts

Posted on December 28, 2012 by 330M Administrator

Want to go back to the good ol’ days of the 1950’s? Guess what? You couldn’t
get assault rifles (or their contemporary equivalents) then at all. (See http:/
/en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Firearms_Act)

Is that why there were so many school shootings then??

Not a big problem in the 50’s? Oh, it must have been the armed guards or
principals weilding six shooters that warded off the bad guys.

Teachers weren’t armed, you say? Did little Johnny pack heat next to his pb&j?

Gun nuts: why must you all be such dicks?

Posted in Politics, Stupidity | Tagged beehives, guns, nra | Leave a comment

Where’s Bryan Fischer’s morality?

Posted on December 16, 2012 by 330M Administrator

Regarding our most recent (it pains me to have to use that adjective) mass
murder on US soil – specifically the most recent (pain, again) at a school,
Bryan Fischer, Director of Issues Analysis for the American Family Association
(AFA), said with empathy and a heartwarming tone:

    Where was God when all this went down? Here’s the bottom line, God is not
    going to go where he is not wanted.

    Now we have spent since 1962…telling God to get lost, telling God we do not
    want you in our schools, we don’t want to pray to you in our schools, we do
    not want to pray to your before football games, we don’t want to pray to
    you at graduations, we don’t want anybody talking about you in a graduation
    speech…And I think God would say to us, ‘Hey, I’ll be glad to protect your
    children, but you’ve got to invite me back into your world first. I’m not
    going to go where I’m not wanted. I am a gentleman.

Continue reading →

Posted in atheism, atheist, Religion | Tagged American Family Association,
Bryan fischer, mass murder, Sandy Hook | 4 Comments

Newtown, CN – My thoughts are with you

Posted on December 14, 2012 by 330M Administrator

If I were religious, I’d be saying that the shooter will burn in hell!

But since I’m intelligent and thoughtful, I will instead wonder what drove that
man to do such a violent thing, and work towards restricting access to weapons
that are designed to kill people.

My way actually does something.

Posted in atheism | Leave a comment
← Older posts

  • Search for: [                    ] [Search]
  • Recent Posts

      □ Gays “hate” god(s) – another American Family Association projection
      □ Happy Zombie Jesus Day – or Google doing it right
      □ punchline in need of a joke
      □ Islam, the religion of nothing
      □ Hey, gun nuts
  • Archives

      □ May 2013
      □ March 2013
      □ December 2012
      □ October 2012
      □ August 2012
      □ June 2012
      □ March 2012
      □ January 2012
      □ December 2011
      □ September 2011
      □ August 2011
      □ June 2011
      □ May 2011
      □ April 2011
      □ March 2011
      □ February 2011
      □ January 2011
      □ December 2010
  • Categories

      □ actor
      □ American Family Association
      □ atheism
      □ atheist
      □ Bible
      □ cigar
      □ Crazy eyes
      □ Democrat
      □ Dogma
      □ fatwa
      □ Funny
      □ Hide the bible
      □ homeopathy
      □ HTB
      □ hypocrisy
      □ Islam
      □ Jewish
      □ Movie
      □ Politics
      □ pseudoscience
      □ Religion
      □ Republican
      □ rick perry
      □ Sports
      □ Star
      □ Stupidity
      □ Uncategorized
  • Meta

      □ Register
      □ Log in
      □ Entries RSS
      □ Comments RSS
      □ WordPress.com
  • Tags

    419 abortion abuse alien Allah Area 51 atheism atheist Atheists eat babies!
    baby beagle benin republic budget cane caning christine o'donnell crazy
    darwin death demon easter embezzle end of the world evil exorcism fatwa
    flogging God god hates fags happy easter Happy zombie jesus day harold
    camping hawkins hell Hena Akhter hypocrite I'm not a witch I'm you I found
    jesus jesus jesus is a zombie Jeziah John Kyl lawson liar May 21 michelle
    bachman michelle bachmann MILF Paul planned parenthood politician politics
    rapture religion religious moron republicans rick perry sarah palin scam
    Shirley Phelps Roper Simon Pegg Sister Marie Thornton spam sprinkling of
    the Lord stoning Stupidity The Atheist Experience Theology torture
    underwear victory komana Zeus zombie zombie jesus
  • 330m Tweets

      □ "Donald Trump is what would happen if a reddit comment thread ran for
        office." Well said. dailykos.com/story/2015/07/… via @dailykos
        6 months ago
      □ ..."I aim to misbehave" 7 months ago
      □ ...and that you'd make it this far...in that outfit. #serenity
        7 months ago
      □ Miranda 7 months ago
      □ Drop what you'rd doing. Serenity is on cable. Do you know what your Sin
        is? #serenity #Firefly #josswhedon 7 months ago
  • Atheist Nexus

    http://widget.chipin.com/widget/id/e80d44a999f1fcde

330m
The Twenty Ten Theme. Blog at WordPress.com.
330m
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. The Twenty Ten Theme.
Follow

Follow “330m”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
