Skip to content

  • Home
  • Commentary
  • Chatter
  • Totem App
  • About Us
  • Contact

Search for: [Search]
Secular Totem

Embrace reason. Find peace.

Menu
Search
Screen Shot 2015-08-19 at 10.17.21 PM

People of Faith Make Better Leaders?

Carly Fiorina is obviously pandering to the religious conservatives at the 2016
Iowa Caucus Consortium Candidate Forum. Let me address her claims that a person
of genuine faith is a better leader.

First, let’s define faith. In a nutshell, it’s belief without evidence.
Religious faith, in particular, is belief in the supernatural (e.g. angels,
fairies, leprechauns) without evidence. Personally speaking, I believe in
chocolate. I can prove it exists and it’s delicious.

She goes on to cite 3 primary reasons that a person of genuine faith is a
better leader: they have empathy, humility, and optimism. I have a few brief
points to make on each of these claims.

 1. Empathy: Tens of thousands of years ago, we lived in small family groups,
    tribes, and later villages. It was really important to have empathy and
    altruistic tendencies because we may likely see the same people over and
    over throughout our lifetimes. And we may need their help one day too.
    These traits are generally self-serving, and part of the human condition.
    We inately want to help people because we see ourselves in them, and have
    evolved to do so. We don’t need the fear of eternal Hell fire or Jesus to
    feel this way.

 2. Humility: Religions can’t truly embrace humility so long as they claim to
    have all the answers regarding the universe and our place in it. Asking
    “what if I’m wrong?” is not something a devout believer asks themselves.
    They know they’re right, and you’re wrong, regardless of evidence. That’s
    not humility. Someone who thinks this way is immediately handicapped in the
    humility department.

 3. Optimism: People who blindly believe in the supernatural may well be very
    optimistic. They’ve convinced themselves that they’re going to a better
    place when they die, so what’s to worry about? Usually religion is
    indoctrinated into someone at a young age, and our collective fear of death
    helps keep it in place. But even without those blinders, people without
    religious faith can and are certainly optimistic about a great many things.
    I have a feeling that constant fear of death, sin, contrition, and
    redemption keep the religious a bit on edge most of the time. So the
    optimism is likely a narrow focus. But people are all different. Some are
    optimistic, some are not. In the end, it depends on the individual.

2016 Iowa Caucus Consortium Candidate Forum

August 19, 2015 Apple-Watch-Article-Image

Totem 2 First to Apple Watch

Totem 2 is the first secular/humanist/atheist reference with an Apple Watch
app. I’ve taken the Notification Center Quote of the Day feature and placed it
on your wrist. You can even tap to advance to another quote, making it easy and
convenient to pass the time exploring the philosophy of thought leaders and
other provocative figures.

Check out the Totem App for more information.

May 8, 2015 Hopscotch

Schoolyard Epistemology

The concept of multiculturalism carries with it both the literal burdens and
benefits of peaceful coexistence. We tend not to think about it much, insulated
by the everpresent comfort of those who think (and maybe even worship) like us…
until we have children. Our little nose miners bring so many changes to our
lives, one of which is the persistent, nagging push to integrate outside that
warm security blanket of like-minded individuals we’ve found ourselves wrapped
within. That’s when things get interesting.

Many people have said that “life is a collection of moments”. How we handle
each moment makes a big impact on our life as a whole, as well as the lives of
those with whom we share these moments. It’s important to remember this,
especially when dealing with children.

Our adult children currently don’t harbor any particular interest in the
subject of religion (pretty much like most people their age), and our youngest
is encouraged to steer clear of the topic of religion with her friends and to
just be an unencumbered 8-year-old. She’s certainly not old enough to have a
worldview, let alone a label. But we’re surrounded by a large number of
families that practice varying forms of Christianity. So it’s tough for her to
fit in with her peer group, as you can imagine.

Schoolyard epistemology can be very different for an 8-year-old than it is for
a child in high school. For an older child, it’s about challenging ideas and
making those with religious beliefs really think about why they hold them. For
a young child, it’s more about diffusing the situation and changing the subject
to something more appropriate. But there are times when a young child is
pressed and needs to be able to respond to some degree. That response is an
opportunity to diffuse the situation, and (potentially) prevent it from
recurring by answering in a way that causes the other child to think beyond the
church club mindset.

Cornered

We talk with our daughter about our worldview, morality, and all the other
normal concerns a parent would discuss with their child. She understands that
we don’t believe in gods and ghosts and things like that. And she knows that
she’s too young to be worrying about these things; that it’s something children
her age shouldn’t discuss casually. She also knows that when the time comes, if
she wants to experience church, or other place of worship, we’d be happy to
take her and help explain the rituals and answer questions as best we can. We
try to balance this with the need to respect other parents’ right to raise
their children as they see fit.

All that said, one of the primary tenets of any religion is to recruit new
believers, so children of religious parents have no problem interrogating other
kids who aren’t in their church club. In our case, most of the time, she’ll get
benign questions from them regarding the reason she doesn’t go to church. But
there are tougher questions as well. To help our daughter cope and begin to
understand the irrational view of religious belief, we form a conversation
around the questions so that she gets context and ideas on how to respond and
diffuse and get back to simply being a second grader. Of course, some of the
responses are hard for her to remember or even understand, which is why we
prefer that she avoid the topic whenever possible. But in time she will
understand well enough.

Obviously, there will be plenty of time to discuss these matters with her peers
when she’s an appropriate age. But so far our experience is that the children
of religious parents bring up the topic at some point. And of all the times the
topic has been raised, it has almost always been raised by the other children.
Our daughter simply doesn’t think about these things. But when cornered, her
responses must be honest, straightforward, give the other child something to
think about (the schoolyard epistemology part), and give her a way to change
the subject.

Here is one typical exchange we’ve re-enacted with her.

    Q: “Why don’t you go to church?”
    A: “There are a lot of gods and churches. Which church?”

    Q: “My church.”
    A: “My parents believe different things.” or “My parents said that I can go
    to a church when I’m older if I want to.”
    A: “…Besides, a lot of kids in this school don’t go to your church. Can we
    just play [something] now?”

If the other child continues to press the question, there are other responses
we recommend to her, like the following.

    Q: “Why?” or “You should go to church.”
    A: “Why do you think we should go?”

    Q: “If you don’t [believe in God/go to church] you’ll go down to the bad
    place with the Devil when you die.”
    A: “Does your god love everyone?”

    Q: “Yes.”
    A: “Does he send good people to that bad place?”

    Q: “No.”
    A: “Do you think I’m a good person?”

    Q: “Yes.”
    A: “Then don’t worry about me going to that bad place. Can we just play
    [something] now?”

If the child insists that church attendance is required to stay out of that bad
place, we recommend this line of reasoning to our daughter.

    Q: “But you have to go to church, otherwise you’ll go to the bad place when
    you die.”
    A: “My parents said that I can go to a church when I’m older, so I don’t
    have to worry about it now. Can we just play [something] now?”

There have been times that the child will say something proudly about the fact
that they’re old enough to go now, or even that our daughter is old enough too.
But at that point it’s easy enough for her to change the subject. Prior to
that, she can lean on the fact that we don’t allow her to go at this age, so
it’s not her choice.

Sometimes the question starts with the concept of belief instead of church
attendance. In this case, this is what we tell our daughter to say.

    Q: “[Why don’t you/Do you] believe in God?”
    A: “I’m just a kid. I don’t think about stuff like that. Can we just play
    [something] now?”

But if the topic can’t be diffused, an alternative response could be something
like this.

    Q: “[Why don’t you/Do you] believe in God?”
    A: “Which god?”

    Q: (various answers from “God” or “Jesus”, to some other description)
    A: “Thor is a god. Why don’t you [believe in Thor/go to church for Thor]?
    Can we just play [something] now?”

If the child is persistent…

    Q: “Thor’s not real. God is real.”
    A: “Lots of people believed in Thor like you believe in your god. He was
    real to them. Can we just play [something] now?”

Most of the kids are familiar with Thor from the Marvel movie The Avengers, so
this is an easy one for her. I always joke with her that if you’re going to
choose to worship a god, it might as well be a really cool one. And Thor has a
magic hammer and can control lightning. So he is way better than Jesus in her
mind.

Church Events

Another way that churches recruit new sheep to the flock is by holding various
events where churchgoers are encouraged to bring guests. Many of these events
are targeted at children. There’s no way your child wants to miss the Harvest
Festival that has games and Halloween pumpkin carving and such, when their
friend asks them to go. And you will undoubtedly look and feel like a
miserable, boring killjoy when you decide that your child can’t go because
they’re not old enough to understand and separate the concept of a fun event
from the reality of religious indoctrination. Their minds are still developing.
The processes of understanding how to reason and evaluate the world can be
compromised very easily in young children. As a thinking adult your child can
make the proper choice. But now is not that time.

One option to try would be to go with your child to the event. Make this a
requirement for her attendance. Before you go, explain to her that this fun
event is something the church is doing to celebrate, but also to make money to
pay for things, and maybe even to convince people to believe what they believe
and start going to their church. You may also want to explain that when you go
to church, you have to give them money to support them, so it’s kind of like a
business where you pay for stuff. I like the coupon metaphor. You get a coupon
for a free cheeseburger so that you’ll go to the restaurant, eat it, like it,
and come back to pay for more later. And that’s one reason they do this kind of
thing.

When there, take the opportunity to explain things to your child. For example,
if there’s a fun ride or game modeled after Noah’s ark, explain that it’s from
a story in the Bible and summarize the story and its implausibility for her.
Could two of every animal on earth fit on a boat? How would animals get across
the ocean to other countries? Why didn’t carnivores like lions try to eat the
other animals? Why did their god need a man to build a boat and collect animals
in the first place? There are lots of great questions for such a silly story.

The second option is to simply disallow your child from going to the event.
This is the tough choice. But it’s easier if you explain what the event is
about and that when she’s older she can attend these events with her friends.
This is how we’ve handled it to-date, and she hasn’t created too big of a stink
about it.

Jesus

Once, I overheard one of my daughter’s friends tell her that Jesus died for
her. So later on in the car I explained what that meant, in relatively graphic
detail. I felt that she could handle it. Not every child will be ready when
this subject comes up, so this is obviously a judgement call. This was
consistent for us, as we try to be honest with her about the tough stuff. I
gave her the quick synopsis of the New Testament:

    Your friend believes that God created the first man and woman, and that the
    woman was fooled by a talking snake into eating a piece of fruit that God
    told her not to eat. So they were punished, and all people born after were
    punished too. Those first two people had children and all of their children
    got married to each other and had more children who married each other.
    Yes, brothers married sisters. Pretty gross, right?

    So then God decided to be born on earth as Jesus (so God is his son, and
    the son is the father at the same time; weird right?), and then he told
    some people about who he was, performed some miracles like making sick
    people well, and then let the Roman army put a crown of thorns on his head
    and crucify him on a cross. Crucifying is when someone has nails hammered
    into their wrists and feet to attach them to a wooden cross and is left to
    die a horrible death.

    After 3 days the zombie Jesus came back from the dead, left his burial tomb
    to talk to some of his followers, and then eventually vanished into heaven.
    He suffered this way as a punishment for what that first woman did (eating
    the fruit). So now when people die they can go to heaven.

So when someone corners her with the “Jesus died for you” line, I tell her that
she should ask them, “Why didn’t your god just forgive people? Why did he have
to kill himself?” She once told me that the talking snake thing was pretty
weird. And this is from a second grader who believes in Santa Claus.

At some point you might be asked if Jesus was real. When this happened to me,
after a few seconds I realized that she didn’t mean as a god. She wanted to
know if he existed, historically speaking. I told her that no one knows for
sure if he really existed as a human being; lots of people were named Jesus
back then. But chances are that he did, as far as we know today. But many of
the stories about him were written a long time after he died, by people who
didn’t know him.

Fitting In

Our daughter has had moments where she’s asked if she can go to church with her
friends, mainly because she wants to fit in and experience something new and
exciting. We don’t allow this, and explain to her that going to church means
that you have to believe the things that they tell you to believe, even if
they’re really weird and not true. And in our family, we don’t want to believe
things that aren’t true. We also tell her that they don’t like it when you ask
them tough questions about their faith; the things they believe without any
proof. And in our family, we ask questions and want to know what’s real and
true without others telling us to just believe things without any proof.

I also remind her that when she’s older, we can all go to church so that she
can see what it’s like. She likes that answer, though, she asks if we can go
right now. We love her enthusiasm and curiosity. Obviously we have to tell her
to wait a bit. Then she starts throwing out ages to see when she can go. Of
course, she starts at her next birthday, to which we reply “no” with each
successive age until she hits the later teenage years, when we respond with
maybes and eventually “sure”.

You have to admire her persistence.

October 26, 2014 Totem-2-iOS8

Totem 2 Updated for iOS 8 and iPhone 6

Totem is an iPhone app created to help atheists, humanists, and skeptics in
their quest for civic equality through education. This secular lexicon contains
information that spans the gamut on the subject of belief, including content
about world religions and theology, as well as inspiration for the non-believer
through witty and insightful quotes, arguments, facts, and more. Broaden your
worldview by exploring those of theists, with a special focus on
Judeo-Christian belief. Increase your ability to make cogent arguments against
belief while respecting others’ right to believe what they choose.

What’s New?

Totem 2 has been optimized for iOS 8 and iPhone 6. The design aesthetic has
been updated to provide iOS 8 cohesion and defer to content. Retina HD support
has been added as well, so iPhone 6 and 6 Plus users will see more content if
they choose. And I’ve added a Notification Center “Today” widget for daily
quotes.

Get It Today!

Visit the App Store and try it today. Embrace reason. Find peace.

appstore-button

September 29, 2014 Totem-2-Article-Feature-Image

Totem 2 for iPhone Now Available

Totem 2 for iPhone was created to help atheists, humanists, and skeptics in
their quest for civic equality through education. This secular lexicon contains
information that spans the gamut on the subject of belief, including content
about world religions and theology, as well as inspiration for the non-believer
through witty and insightful quotes, arguments, facts, and more. Broaden your
worldview by exploring those of theists, with a special focus on
Judeo-Christian belief. Increase your ability to make cogent arguments against
belief while respecting others’ right to believe what they choose.

And there’s more than just great content. The user interface is gorgeous;
modern and responsive. But it’s not just attractive. It’s also fast and easy to
use. Searches are multi-threaded making them incredibly responsive, and content
is really easy to find with categories and groupings. And once you find the
right quote, for example, you can share it using the new iOS 7 sharing sheet.

Visit the Totem 2 product page for more information.

Perhaps Secular Totem will help, in its own small way, to provide a future
where an open atheist isn’t branded as immoral or amoral, and can enjoy civic
equality with the rest of the country.

What’s New?

  • All new iOS 7 design
  • Works great with iOS 7 system text sizes
  • Focus on content; no extra fluff
  • Beautiful typography and photography
  • Lots of preset filters, categories, and sources
  • Hide the navigation and tab bars for more reading space
  • More powerful search
  • Enhanced sharing of quotes
  • More biographies, more quotes, more articles, and more reference items!

Get It Today!

Visit the App Store and try it today. Embrace reason. Find peace.

appstore-button

April 7, 2014 1377486912.jpg

Put Christ Back in Christmas

Most Bible scholars agree that the modern Christmas celebration is of pagan
origin. In his book 4000 Years of Christmas, Earl W. Count, Professor of
Anthropology at Hamilton College, explains the origin of the Christmas
celebration:

    “We do not know its beginning… we do not really know when the Christ child
    it venerates was born: or the time and place when Christmas was first
    celebrated: or exactly how it was that, over the centuries, a bishop saint
    of Asia Minor, and a pagan god of the Germans merged to become Santa
    Claus.”

    “Christmas began over 4000 years ago as the festival which renewed the
    world for another year. The 12 days of Christmas, the bright fires and
    probably the yule log; the giving of presents; the carnivals with their
    floats; their merry makings and clowning; the mummers who sing and play
    from house to house, the feasting; the church processions with their lights
    and song—all these and more began three centuries before Christ was born.
    And they celebrated the arrival of a new year.” (ibid., page 18).

December 25?

How did December 25 become Christmas? We cannot be entirely sure. Elements of
the festival that developed from the fourth century until modern times may well
derive from pagan traditions. Yet the actual date might really derive more from
Judaism—from Jesus’ death at Passover, and from the rabbinic notion that great
things might be expected, again and again, at the same time of the year—than
from paganism. Then again, in this notion of cycles and the return of God’s
redemption, we may perhaps also be touching upon something that the pagan
Romans who celebrated Sol Invictus, and many other peoples since, would have
understood and claimed for their own, too.

But according to The Good News magazine, a careful analysis of Scripture
clearly indicates that Dec. 25 is an unlikely date for Christ’s birth. Here are
two primary reasons:

First, we know that shepherds were in the fields watching their flocks at the
time of Jesus’ birth (Luke 2:7-8). Shepherds were not in the fields during
December. According to Celebrations: The Complete Book of American Holidays,
Luke’s account “suggests that Jesus may have been born in summer or early fall.
Since December is cold and rainy in Judea, it is likely the shepherds would
have sought shelter for their flocks at night” (p. 309).

Similarly, The Interpreter’s One-Volume Commentary says this passage argues
“against the birth [of Christ] occurring on Dec. 25 since the weather would not
have permitted” shepherds watching over their flocks in the fields at night.

Second, Jesus’ parents came to Bethlehem to register in a Roman census (Luke
2:1-4). Such censuses were not taken in winter, when temperatures often dropped
below freezing and roads were in poor condition. Taking a census under such
conditions would have been self-defeating.

Given the difficulties and the desire to bring pagans into Christianity, “the
important fact then . . . to get clearly into your head is that the fixing of
the date as December 25th was a compromise with paganism” (William Walsh, The
Story of Santa Klaus, 1970, p. 62).

If Jesus Christ wasn’t born on Dec. 25, does the Bible indicate when he was
born? The biblical accounts point to the fall of the year as the most likely
time of Jesus’ birth, based on the conception and birth of John the Baptist.

Since Elizabeth (John’s mother) was in her sixth month of pregnancy when Jesus
was conceived (Luke 1:24-36), we can determine the approximate time of year
Jesus was born if we know when John was born. John’s father, Zacharias, was a
priest serving in the Jerusalem temple during the course of Abijah (Luke 1:5).
Historical calculations indicate this course of service corresponded to June
13-19 in that year ( The Companion Bible, 1974, Appendix 179, p. 200).

It was during this time of temple service that Zacharias learned that he and
his wife Elizabeth would have a child (Luke 1:8-13). After he completed his
service and traveled home, Elizabeth conceived (verses 23-24). Assuming John’s
conception took place near the end of June, adding nine months brings us to the
end of March as the most likely time for John’s birth. Adding another six
months (the difference in ages between John and Jesus) brings us to the end of
September as the likely time of Jesus’ birth.

(non) Christmas Tree

The North American Christmas tree tradition was introduced to Canada in the
winter of 1781 by Brunswick soldiers stationed in the Province of Quebec to
garrison the colony against American attack. General Friedrich Adolf Riedesel
and his wife, the Baroness von Riedesel, held a Christmas party at Sorel,
delighting their guests with a fir tree decorated with candles and fruits.

A woodcut of the British Royal family with their Christmas tree at Windsor
Castle, initially published in The Illustrated London News, December 1848, was
copied in the United States at Christmas in 1850, in Godey’s Lady’s Book.
Godey’s copied it exactly, except for the removal of the Queen’s tiara and
Prince Albert’s mustache, to remake the engraving into an American scene. The
republished Godey’s image became the first widely circulated picture of a
decorated evergreen Christmas tree in America. Art historian Karal Ann Marling
called Prince Albert and Queen Victoria, shorn of their royal trappings, “the
first influential American Christmas tree”. Folk-culture historian Alfred Lewis
Shoemaker states, “In all of America there was no more important medium in
spreading the Christmas tree in the decade 1850–60 than Godey’s Lady’s Book”.
The image was reprinted in 1860, and by the 1870s, putting up a Christmas tree
had become common in America.

According to the Encyclopædia Britannica:

    “The use of evergreen trees, wreaths, and garlands to symbolize eternal
    life was a custom of the ancient Egyptians, Chinese, and Hebrews. Tree
    worship was common among the pagan Europeans and survived their conversion
    to Christianity in the Scandinavian customs of decorating the house and
    barn with evergreens at the New Year to scare away the devil and of setting
    up a tree for the birds during Christmastime.”

In short, the centerpiece of the modern Christmas celebration, the tree, is
decidedly non-Christian in origin; adopted and transformed into a metaphor for
the Christian concept of eternal life.

Summary

So if we want to put Christ back in Christmas, we need to move the date and get
rid of the tree. Alternatively, outraged Christians can celebrate however they
choose, and be tolerant of people who are merely cultural Christians, even the
ones who don’t believe in the magic baby Jesus concocted by Saul of Tarsus (the
former Pharisee who is responsible for modern Catholicism).

August 25, 2013 1359360802.jpg

The Two State Dream. Keep Dreaming.

The occasional tension and mostly outright anti-semitic hatred that Arabs have
for Israel is a complex issue, but a large part of it is directly related to
the Palestinian desire to push every last Jew out of Israel and into the
Mediterranean Sea. And as we hear about the struggle to create a two-state
solution, one can only wonder, “how did we get here? Why is this so hard?”

The following is a transcript from a video summary by Encounter Books titled
“Debunking the Palestine Lie”. It does a great job of explaining the western
view of the Israeli-Palestinian timeline.

Preamble

On May 16th 2011 the New York Times published an op-ed titled “The Long Overdue
Palestinian State” by Mahmoud Abbas, President of the Palestinian National
Authority. In that piece, Abbas called for the United Nations to formally
recognize a Palestinian state based on the pre-1967 borders, regardless of
negotiations with the state of Israel.

The article appeared just a few days before Barack Obama’s much-anticipated
speech on the Arab Spring in which the President also tried to jumpstart peace
negotiations between Israel and Palestinian Authority.

“To reach an agreement on a two state solution,” Obama declared, “Israel must
agree to return to the pre-1967 borders modified only by mutually agreed land
swaps.”

Neither Mr. Abbas nor Mr. Obama can explain how anyone could have recognized a
United Nations designated Palestinian state that Palestinian leaders and the
Arab states themselves have rejected.

Of the troubles in Ireland, the poet William Butler Yeats once wrote, “Great
hatred, little room, maimed us at the start.”

Post Wold War I

In Palestine at the start there was plenty of room, more than enough room, for
a prosperous Jewish state and a prosperous Arab state.

After World War I ended with the dismantling of the Ottoman Empire, the League
of Nations established “The Mandate for Palestine” including all of the land
that is now Israel, the West Bank, and the Gaza Strip, plus the entire
territory east of the Jordan River now called the Kingdom of Jordan. The area
under the mandate was as large as Syria and about half as large as Iraq, yet
the total population at the time was less than 1 million, of whom 10% were
Jews.

It was in that vast, underdeveloped and underpopulated territory that the
British had promised in the language of the 1917 Balfour declaration to
“…support the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish
people.” The declaration also promised that “…nothing shall be done which may
prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in
Palestine.”

Open Jewish immigration to the holy land was encouraged, as was freedom of
speech, religion, and assembly for the Arabs of Palestine; rights they had
sorely lacked under Turkish rule. Mired for more than two centuries of
backwardness and grinding poverty, Palestinians were never recognized by the
Ottoman Empire as possessing any distinctive national identity.

The Palestinians quickly took advantage of their new freedom to speak bluntly,
demanding a stop to the Jewish immigration that had just begun. Said one Arab
representative during the Paris peace conference, “We will push the Zionists
into the sea, or they will send us back into the desert.” Aref al-Dajani,
Palestinian leader from Jerusalem warned, “It is impossible to live with the
Jews. In all the countries where they are at present they are not wanted
because they always arrive to suck the blood of everybody. If the League of
Nations will not listen to the appeal of the Arabs, this country will become a
river of blood.”

Well, as promised, blood did flow when the Palestinian demand to end Jewish
immigration was not granted. Jerusalem was the first flashpoint for regular
Arab attacks on Jewish communities. In April 1920, Palestinians from nearby
towns poured into the old city. The Muslim Mayor of Jerusalem and other
notables worked up the crowd to launch a jihad against the Jews.

“If we don’t use force against the Zionists and against the Jews we will never
be rid of them,” urged newspaper editor Aref al-Aref. The crowd shouted back,
“We will drink the blood of the Jews!” …shouting Islamic slogans like,
“Mohammed’s religion was born with the sword!” Thousands surged through the
Jewish quarter and into West Jerusalem. The mobs vented their rage against any
Jew they could find, burning and looting homes and stores, and even attacking
British and Arab policemen. After several days of rioting, the final toll was
six Jews dead, hundreds beaten, and widespread destruction of property.

What became known as “The Nebi Musa Riot” was the opening shot in a 90 year war
to reverse the Balfour Declaration. And things soon got worse as the Allies, to
assuage the fears of Arab monarchs, separated the land east of the Jordan river
out of the total area accessible to Jewish immigrants and created the Emirate
of Transjordan. Reconciling the aspirations of Arabs and Jews became far more
tenuous after the Balfour Declaration had to be carried out in the truncated
area of Palestine from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean Sea.

World War II

There was now much less room and a great deal more hatred. The decades that
followed were marred by perpetual violence against the Jews both in Palestine
and in Europe. The two were often linked. Under the leadership of the Grand
Mufti and President of the Supreme Muslim Council, Haj Amin al-Husseini, the
Arabs of Palestine waged an endless jihad against their Jewish neighbors. When
the British sent a royal commission to investigate a solution, the Jews,
represented by Chaim Weizmann, pressed for partition of the territory into two
states even if the territory assigned to the Jews was the size of a tablecloth.

The Peel Commission’s final report, published in July 1937, proposed such a
division. The Jews were offered an independent state in a small enclave along
the sea coast from Tel Aviv to the north of the country, constituting about 20%
of the remaining mandate territory, while the Palestinian Arabs would get 80%
for their own state. Desperate for any means to be able to bring in large
numbers of the endangered European Jews, the Zionists reluctantly accepted the
commission’s partition plan. Lead by the Mufti, the Arabs rejected the
partition out of hand and pressed on with the armed revolt against the mandate.

The British succeeded in putting down the violence for a time. al-Husseini was
sent into exile, ultimately, in Hitler’s Nazi Germany, where he lived as a
special guest of the Fuhrer. But severe limitations were placed on Jewish
immigration to the Holy Land in the years leading up to the Holocaust that
undoubtedly directly lead to the death of many thousands of European Jews.
Following the atrocities of the second World War, Britain relinquished
authority over the mandate to the newly formed United Nations. The U.N. created
yet another commission to try to figure out what to do with the contested
territory.

The Cold War

The United Nations Special Committee on Palestine, recommended by a vote of 7
to 3, yet another two state solution; another partition plan to the General
Assembly. This plan would have seen the territory divided almost equally
between Jews and Arabs. Once again the Zionists made public their acceptance of
the proposal and once again Arab officials announced that any partition would
be met with rivers of blood. Shortly after the U.N. vote, the 20 member Arab
League sent their newly organized Arab Liberation Army against the Jews of
Palestine.

Elements of five regular Arab armies from Egypt, Jordan, Syria, Iraq, and
Lebanon invaded Israel on May 15 1948. Arab League Secretary General Abdul
Rahman Hassan Azzam vowed, “This will be a war of extermination and a momentous
massacre, which will be spoken of like the Mongol massacres and the crusades.”
But despite their overwhelming numbers and heated rhetoric, after a year of
fighting, it was the Jewish state that won a decisive victory. Based on the
1949 armistice lines, Israel’s territory expanded by almost 40%. The
Palestinian Arabs were the big losers.

For the second time in ten years, their leaders rejected a partition plan that
would have given them independence and more land designated for their state
than for the Jewish state. Instead, they ended up with nothing, and 650,000
Palestinians became refugees. Jordan’s King Abdullah sent his Arab Legion to
occupy the Palestinian West Bank and annex the territory to his Kingdom. Egypt
took the Gaza Strip and for the next 18 years denied Palestinians any civil
rights. It never occurred to the rulers of Jordan or Egypt to create a state
for the homeless Palestinians, nor did new Palestinian leaders, like Yasser
Arafat, protest the occupation of their land by foreign rulers.

Modern Day

Three times in the past decade Israeli Prime Ministers have offered Palestinian
leaders an independent state far more generous than anything Jordan and Egypt
ever allowed when they controlled the West Bank and Gaza. At Camp David in 2000
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak agreed to the border suggested by President
Clinton that would have established a West Bank/Gaza/Palestinian state with
some territorial adjustments and with the Palestinians getting East Jerusalem
as their capital.

For his part, Palestinian Liberation Organization Chairman Yasser Arafat walked
out of negotiations, went back home, and launched Second Intifada. Invoking
Islamic Jew hatred as justification, the Palestinians conducted a three-year
brutal campaign of suicide bombings against Israeli pizza parlors, wedding
halls, and discoteques. In 2005 Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon decided
that it was against Israel’s security interest to govern the 1.1 million
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip. Sharon dismantled all of the Jewish settlements
and pulled Israeli forces back across the 1967 borders between Israel and Gaza
without even any land swaps. As an added bonus, Israel left the Palestinians a
thriving flower export industry to help jumpstart the local economy. The
Palestinian’s response to this generosity? Well, first they destroyed the
donated greenhouses and then they launched a war of missiles and rockets
against civilian targets in Israel.

In a September 2008 meeting in Jerusalem, then Israeli Prime Minister Ehud
Olmert presented President Obama with a detailed map of a future Palestinian
state that, with land swaps, would constitute close to 100% of the territory of
the West Bank and Gaza prior to the June 1967 war. Olmert also offered to
divide Jerusalem, enabling the Palestinians to locate their capital in the
eastern half of the city.

Promising to come back the next day for further discussions, Abbas took
Olmert’s map to his Romola office just a few miles outside Jerusalem for his
aides to study. But Abbas never returned with the map.

This was the last time Israeli and Palestinian leaders met. Many times over the
last 63 years, both the international community and the state of Israel have
offered the Arabs of Palestine their own state. Each time these offers have
been met by more violence against Jewish citizens. Neither President Abbas nor
President Obama are ignorant of this fact. They simply both choose to ignore
it. For Mr. Abbas, this refusal seems to be a part of a consistent thread woven
throughout the Arab war against the Jews. Mr. Obama’s positions remain more
mysterious.

January 28, 2013 1356233660.jpg

Considerations for Creationism

Recently, New Orleans schools banned creationist curriculum in science classes,
shunning Texas revisionist “science” textbooks. This was a big win for the
cause of reason, and sanity in general. It reminded me just how ridiculous the
argument is, and the fact that so many people in the United States actually
believe the asinine concept of creationism is truly chilling.

Evolution is technically a scientific theory but considered a fact. This is due
to the mountains of evidence backing it up, which include observations of
evolution by random mutation and natural selection in the present day animal
kingdom, and over a century of attempts to debunk its validity.

So what is a scientific fact? What is a theory or hypothesis?

Science generally uses the formulation of falsifiable hypotheses developed
through systematic empiricism. Hypotheses that cannot ever be disproven are not
real science.

    Hypotheses are generally formed by observing whatever it is you are
    studying, with the objective of understanding the nature of the subject.
    This is systematic empiricism.

Many scientists hold the belief that a hypothesis cannot ever be proven, only
disproven. This is especially true in historical sciences like paleontology,
where a time machine would be the only true way to prove a hypothesis.

Acceptance of scientific ideas is based on a process of publication and peer
review. To become a legitimate theory (but still not established fact), a
hypothesis must be subjected to the approval of a scientist’s peers and
published in an accredited scientific journal. This process maintains
scientific integrity. Most significantly, this helps to maintain science as a
process rather than a gradual accumulation of facts, ever creeping forward
towards omniscience. Theories tend to persist until a better theory is proposed
and gains broad acceptance.

For the scientific community to accept a finding, other scientists must be able
to follow the same methods you used and come up with the same results. In
short, the scientific method is the use of reason and evidence in order to
learn about a specific thing or process, and then everyone tries to prove you
wrong. After a while, it becomes an accepted fact and everyone rejoices at the
furtherance of our knowledge of the universe. If it is found to be invalid at
any later time, a new theory takes its place and the process begins again.

So what is creationism and why isn’t it science?

There are two primary types of Christian creationists. The first type are Bible
literalists that accept everything as it was written in the book of Genesis.
This includes a universe created in seven days about 6,000 years ago, the
Garden of Eden, Adam and Eve, a talking snake, etc. It can even include the
preposterous claim that humans existed alongside dinosaurs, and even used them
in agriculture (e.g. imagine a man riding on a saddled triceratops).

I’ve read many claims from these literalists that evolution is just a theory,
demanding that evidence be shown to them regarding evolution. But instead of
demanding that evolutionary biologists bring them evidence like some kind of
scientific pizza delivery service, I would suggest that they go out and view
the evidence for themselves. They should start at the closest museum of natural
history, and work their way outward from there.

Secondarily, they should ask themselves if it’s truly reasonable to consider
that Adam and Eve bore out the entire human race by means of mass incest, after
a talking snake told Eve to eat from a tree of knowledge in a magical garden.

The second type of creationist is the progressive. They hedge their bets by
accepting evolution, but only as a process started and stewarded by a divine
creator who also insists on evolving deadly viruses and bacteria, as well as
other nasties. These creationists include the likes of the Roman Catholic
Church. It’s obvious why the Roman Catholic Church would take this stance as an
attempt to maintain relevance in the face of utter embarrassment in an
intellectually evolving world. But the other believers seem to me to be
reasonably intelligent people who are desperately clinging to their religious
beliefs either as a means of conformity, or to avoid the admission of years
wasted believing in the absurd.

To these creationists I would say, take the last step towards reason. Though
you may create a rift with your peer intellectual laggards, and you may realize
that much of your life was wasted on childish beliefs, be brave and move
forward toward a fulfilling life based on reason and the search for answers.
Stop walking and drop the religious baggage so that you can run.

December 22, 2012 1353313050.jpg

Mitt Romney Believes Crazy Shit

Mitt Romney has been adjusting his message more toward the ultra-conservative
religious right of the party ever since Rick Santorum surged in the polls,
winning the Minnesota and Colorado caucuses, as well as a nonbinding primary in
Missouri. Apparently, Mitt’s quite devout. But when explaining his religious
beliefs, he dances around the subject, never getting into too much detail. So
in the interest of clarity for the Republican voting public, and a bit of what
I call “tardy honesty”, I give you some of the top things Mitt Romney believes
as a practicing Mormon, with some descriptive commentary.

 1. Jesus and Satan are spirit brothers and we were all born as siblings in
    heaven to them both (Mormon Doctrine, p. 163).
 2. He believes that God lives near a planet called “Kolob”.
 3. He believes in baptizing dead people. Yeah, whether they like it or not!
 4. God is married to his goddess wife and has spirit children (Mormon
    Doctrine, p. 516).
 5. There are three levels of heaven: telestial, terrestrial, and celestial
    (Mormon Doctrine, p. 348).
 6. He believes that The Garden of Eden was in Missouri.
 7. He believes that it was impossible for Negroes to go to Heaven before 1978.
    I think that’s when “Shaft” was cancelled.
 8. He believes that he’s going to become a god (DC 132:20).
 9. There are many gods (Mormon Doctrine, p. 163). Soon that’ll include one
    more: God Romney.
10. He believes he’ll own a planet after he dies. He already owns Earth.
11. He believes the real Christian God is not eternal but rather that He was
    once a man from another planet.
12. He believes that he needs to wear magic underwear, created by Mormons,
    which is not to be removed unless he is bathing.
13. He believes it’s a sin to drink anything containing caffeine, to use
    tobacco, or imbibe hot drinks for pleasure.
14. There is no salvation without accepting Joseph Smith as a prophet of God
    (Doctrines of Salvation, vol. 1, p. 188).
15. A plan of salvation was needed for the people of earth, so Jesus and Satan
    both offered a plan to the Father. Jesus’ plan was accepted. In effect, the
    Devil wanted to be the Savior of all Mankind and to “deny men their agency
    and to dethrone god” (Mormon Doctrine, p. 193; Journal of Discourses, vol.
    6, p. 8). Good thing God had Jesus to help him make such an important
    decision.
16. And, of course, if it had not been for Joseph Smith and the restoration,
    there would be no salvation. There is no salvation [the context is the full
    gospel including exaltation to Godhood] outside the church of Jesus Christ
    of Latter-day Saints (Mormon Doctrine, p. 670). Funny how all religions
    seem to be the one, true religion. But no, this one really is the one.
    There are many more tenets of the Mormon faith that would make your eyes
    roll, like the whole golden plates thing. But these should keep you busy
    until November.

February 29, 2012 1353311784.jpg

Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Did Not Support Prayer in Public Schools

Dr. King supported the various Supreme Court decisions prohibiting
government-sponsored prayer in public schools. In a January 1965 interview with
Playboy magazine, Dr. King was asked about one of the rulings. Not only did he
back the court’s decision, he added that his antithesis, Governor George
Wallace of Alabama, stood on the other side of the argument.

    “I endorse it. I think it was correct,” King said. “Contrary to what many
    have said, it sought to outlaw neither prayer nor belief in God. In a
    pluralistic society such as ours, who is to determine what prayer shall be
    spoken, and by whom? Legally, constitutionally or otherwise, the state
    certainly has no such right. I am strongly opposed to the efforts that have
    been made to nullify the decision. They have been motivated, I think, by
    little more than the wish to embarrass the Supreme Court. When I saw
    Brother Wallace going up to Washington to testify against the decision at
    the congressional hearings, it only strengthened my conviction that the
    decision was right.”

Rob Boston of Americans United also notes that, in a time when some states
still made it illegal to buy, sell or use birth control, Dr. King was in favor
of greater access to it and was a strong progressive when it came to economics,
health care, and poverty. He was also, of course, a fierce opponent of the
Vietnam War.

Were he alive today, it’s unlikely King would endorse the Religious Right’s
current crusades for teaching creationism and “intelligent design” in public
schools. King saw no need for religion and science to fight. “Science keeps
religion from sinking into the valley of crippling irrationalism and paralyzing
obscurantism,” he once wrote.

In one of his most famous passages, King reminded Americans of the different
roles religion and government play in society.

    “The church must be reminded that it is not the master or the servant of
    the state, but rather the conscience of the state,” King wrote in Strength
    to Love, a sermon collection. “It must be the guide and the critic of the
    state, and never its tool. If the church does not recapture its prophetic
    zeal, it will become an irrelevant social club without moral or spiritual
    authority.”

February 4, 2012

Posts navigation

←
Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | (C) 2016
