TheocracyWatch     The Rise of the Religious Right in the Republican Party
Logo
                                                            _
Home               What's New?     Download audio and video      SEARCH TheocracyWatch

Introduction
                           -If you're new to this site, here are some suggestions:
Taking Over the
Republican Party           • Pace yourself. Seriously. There is a great deal of
                           information here, which can quickly become overwhelming.
Biblical Law
                           • Begin on this page for background information, read a few
Government                 other articles, then come back for more when you've had a
                           chance to digest what you've read.
Bush
                           • The links on the left of every page will take you to other
Faith Based                background material, analysis, and articles.
Initiative
                           • Links to outside sources may expire at any time.
Religious                  TheocracyWatch has no control over expired links to outside
Institutions               articles.

Christian Zionism          • See the What's New page for reports on the ongoing efforts
                           of the religious right to influence culture, politics, and
Environment                more.

Women                   

Religious Right            _________________________________________________________
Economics
                                                        
Schools
                            "This Republican Party of Lincoln has become a party of
Homophobia                                        theocracy."
                       U.S. Representative Christopher Shays, R-CT, (New York Times 3/23/
Human Sexuality                                       05)

States' Rights                                          

Separation of          What is Dominionism? Palin, the Christian Right, & Theocracy
Church and State       by cberlet
                       Fri Sep 05, 2008 at 06:13:19 AM PDT
The Media
                       Sarah Palin is a "Dominionist" with an apocalytic End Times
Appeal of the          theological viewpoint that sees the war in Iraq as part of God's
Religious Right        plan.  More on the End Times in the next post. Let's talk about
                       Christian Right Dominionism and tendencies toward authoritarian
Satan                  theocratic governance.

Texas GOP Platform     With a number of bloggers calling Sarah Palin a "Dominionist," it
                       is a good idea to clear up some obvious errors in the use of
                       terminology.

Download Materials     Neither Sarah Palin nor her Protestant church affiliated with the
                       Assemblies of God should be described as practicing a form of
Link to Us             "Dominion Theology" or "Christian Reconstructionism."  That is
                       just plain wrong.
Search this Site
                       It is fair to suggest that Palin displays the tendency called
Speaker Info           "Dominionism" in some of her public statements.

About Us               As one of the authors who popularized the term "Dominionism"
                       (along with Sara Diamond, and Fred Clarkson), I feel some
                       obligation to clear up this confusion, which stems from some very
                       sloppy research posted on a number of websites where the terms
Visit Talk To          "Dominionism," "Dominion Theology," and "Christian
Action!                Reconstructionism" are used improperly and interchangeably.

                       "Christian Reconstructionism" is a form of  "Dominion Theology"
                       that influenced a tendency toward "Dominionism" in the Christian
                       Right and certain evangelical churches such as The Assemblies of
                       God.  But, lumping of these theologies together is neither
                       accurate, nor fair.

                       How did this confusion get started?

                       In a September 1994 plenary speech to the Christian Coalition
                       national convention, Rev. D. James Kennedy said that "true
                       Christian citizenship" involves an active engagement in society to
                       "take dominion over all things as vice-regents of God." Kennedy's
                       remarks were reported in February 1995 by sociologist and
                       journalist Sara Diamond, who wrote that Kennedy had "echoed the
                       Reconstructionist line."

                       More than anyone else, it was Sara Diamond who popularized the
                       term "dominionism," using it to describe a growing political
                       tendency in the Christian Right. It is a useful term that has,
                       unfortunately, been used in a variety of ways that are neither
                       accurate nor useful. Diamond was careful to discuss how the small
                       Christian Reconstructionist theological movement had helped
                       introduce "dominionism" as a concept into the larger and more
                       diverse social/political movements called the Christian Right.

                       Dominionism is therefore a tendency among Protestant Christian
                       evangelicals and fundamentalists that encourages them to not only
                       be active political participants in civic society, but also seek
                       to dominate the political process as part of a mandate from God.

                       This highly politicized concept of dominionism is based on the
                       Bible's text in Genesis 1:26:


                           "And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our
                           likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea,
                           and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over
                           all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth
                           upon the earth." (King James Version).

                           "Then God said, 'Let us make man in our image, in our likeness
                           and let them rule over the fish of the sea and the birds of
                           the air, over the livestock, over all the earth and over all
                           the creatures that move along the ground.'" (New International
                           Version).

                       The vast majority of Christians read this text and conclude that
                       God has appointed them stewards and caretakers of Earth. As Sara
                       Diamond explains, however, some Christian read the text and
                       believe, "that Christians alone are Biblically mandated to occupy
                       all secular institutions until Christ returns." That, in a
                       nutshell, is the idea of "dominionism."

                       Just because some critics of the Christian Right have stretched
                       the term dominionism past its breaking point does not mean we
                       should abandon the term. And while it is true that few
                       participants in the Christian Right Culture War want a theocracy
                       as proposed by the Christian Reconstructionists, many of their
                       battlefield Earth commanders are leading them in that direction. A
                       number of these leaders have been influenced by Christian
                       Reconstructionism, which is a variant of theocracy called
                       "theonomy."

                       William Martin is the author of the 1996 tome With God on Our
                       Side, a companion volume to the PBS series. Martin is a
                       sociologist and professor of religion at Rice University, and he
                       has been critical of the way some critics of the Christian Right
                       have tossed around the terms "dominionism" and "theocracy." Martin
                       has offered some careful writing on the subject. According to
                       Martin:


                           "It is difficult to assess the influence of Reconstructionist
                           thought with any accuracy. Because it is so genuinely radical,
                           most leaders of the Religious Right are careful to distance
                           themselves from it. At the same time, it clearly holds some
                           appeal for many of them. One undoubtedly spoke for others when
                           he confessed, 'Though we hide their books under the bed, we
                           read them just the same.' "

                       According to Martin, "several key leaders have acknowledged an
                       intellectual debt to the theonomists. Jerry Falwell and D. James
                       Kennedy have endorsed Reconstructionist books."

                       Before he died in 2001, the founder of Christian Reconstuctionism,
                       R. J. Rushdoony, appeared several times on Christian Right
                       televangelist programs such as Pat Robertson's 700 Club and the
                       program hosted by D. James Kennedy, writes Martin.

                       "Pat Robertson makes frequent use of 'dominion' language" says
                       Martin, "his book, The Secret Kingdom, has often been cited for
                       its theonomy elements; and pluralists were made uncomfortable
                       when, during his presidential campaign, he said he 'would only
                       bring Christians and Jews into the government,' as well as when he
                       later wrote, 'There will never be world peace until God's house
                       and God's people are given their rightful place of leadership at
                       the top of the world.' "

                       Martin also points out that "Jay Grimstead, who leads the
                       Coalition on Revival, which brings Reconstructionists together
                       with more mainstream evangelicals, has said, 'I don't call myself
                       [a Reconstructionist],' but 'A lot of us are coming to realize
                       that the Bible is God's standard of morality . . . in all points
                       of history . . . and for all societies, Christian and
                       non-Christian alike. . . . It so happens that Rushdoony, Bahnsen,
                       and North understood that sooner.' He added, 'There are a lot of
                       us floating around in Christian leadership James Kennedy is one of
                       them-who don't go all the way with the theonomy thing, but who
                       want to rebuild America based on the Bible.'"

                       So let's choose our language carefully, but let's recognize that
                       terms such as "dominionism" and "theocracy," when used cautiously
                       and carefully, are appropriate when describing anti-democratic
                       tendencies in the Christian Right.

                       "Dominionism" as a Term or Description

                       The term "dominionism" is used different ways by different people.
                       When new terms are developed, that is to be expected. If we are to
                       use words and phrases to discuss ideas, however, it pays to be on
                       the same page concerning how we define those terms. This is
                       especially true in public debates.

                       In her 1989 book Spiritual Warfare, sociologist Sara Diamond
                       discussed how dominionism as an ideological tendency in the
                       Christian Right had been significantly influenced by Christian
                       Reconstructionism. Over the past 20 years the leading proponents
                       of Christian Reconstructionism and dominion theology have included
                       Rousas John (R.J.) Rushdoony, Gary North, Greg Bahnsen, David
                       Chilton, Gary DeMar, and Andrew Sandlin.

                       Diamond explained that "the primary importance of the [Christian
                       Reconstructionist] ideology is its role as a catalyst for what is
                       loosely called 'dominion theology.'" According to Diamond,
                       "Largely through the impact of Rushdoony's and North's writings,
                       the concept that Christians are Biblically mandated to 'occupy'
                       all secular institutions has become the central unifying ideology
                       for the Christian Right." (italics in the original).

                       In a series of articles and book chapters Diamond expanded on her
                       thesis. She called Reconstructionism "the most intellectually
                       grounded, though esoteric, brand of dominion theology," and
                       observed that "promoters of Reconstructionism see their role as
                       ideological entrepreneurs committed to a long-term struggle."

                       So Christian Reconstructionism was the most influential form of
                       dominion theology, and it influenced both the theological concepts
                       and political activism of white Protestant conservative
                       evangelicals mobilized by the Christian Right.

                       But very few evangelicals have even heard of dominion theology,
                       and fewer still embrace Christian Reconstructionism. How do we
                       explain this, especially since our critics are quick to point it
                       out?
                       The answer lies in teasing apart the terminology and how it is
                       used.

                       Christian Reconstructionism is a form of theocratic dominion
                       theology. Its leaders challenged evangelicals across a wide swath
                       of theological beliefs to engage in a more muscular and activist
                       form of political participation. The core theme of dominion
                       theology is that the Bible mandates Christians to take over and
                       "occupy" secular institutions.

                       A number of Christian Right leaders read what the Christian
                       Reconstructionists were writing, and they adopted the idea of
                       taking dominion over the secular institutions of the United States
                       as the "central unifying ideology" of their social movement. They
                       decided to gain political power through the Republican Party.

                       This does not mean most Christian Right leaders became Christian
                       Reconstructionists. It does mean they were influenced by dominion
                       theology. But they were influenced in a number of different ways,
                       and some promote the theocratic aspects more militantly than
                       others.

                       It helps to see the terms dominionism, dominion theology, and
                       Christian Reconstructionism as distinct and not interchangeable.
                       While all Christian Reconstructionists are dominionists, not all
                       dominionists are Christian Reconstructionists.

                       A nested subset chart looks like this:
                       ---Triumphalism 
                       ---------Dominionism 
                       ---------------------Dominion Theology or Theocracy 
                       ----------------------------------Theonomy 
                       ----------------------------------------------Christian
                       Reconstructionism

                       The specific meanings are different in important ways, although
                       the terms have been used in a variety of conflicting ways in
                       popular articles, especially on the Internet.

                       In its generic sense, dominionism is a very broad political
                       tendency within the Christian Right. It ranges from soft to hard
                       versions in terms of its theocratic impulse.

                       Soft Dominionists are Christian nationalists. They believe that
                       Biblically-defined immorality and sin breed chaos and anarchy.
                       They fear that America's greatness as God's chosen land has been
                       undermined by liberal secular humanists, feminists, and
                       homosexuals. Purists want litmus tests for issues of abortion,
                       tolerance of gays and lesbians, and prayer in schools. Their
                       vision has elements of theocracy, but they stop short of calling
                       for supplanting the Constitution and Bill of Rights.

                       Hard Dominionists believe all of this, but they want the United
                       States to be a Christian theocracy. For them the Constitution and
                       Bill of Rights are merely addendums to Old Testament Biblical law.
                       They claim that Christian men with specific theological beliefs
                       are ordained by God to run society. Christians and others who do
                       not accept their theological beliefs would be second-class
                       citizens. This sector includes Christian Reconstructionists, but
                       it has a growing number of adherents in the leadership of the
                       Christian Right.

                       It makes more sense to reserve the term "dominion theology" to
                       describe specific theological currents, while using the term
                       "dominionism" in a generic sense to discuss a tendency toward
                       aggressive political activism by Christians who claim they are
                       mandated by God to take over society. Even then, we need to locate
                       the subject of our criticisms on a scale that ranges from soft to
                       hard versions of dominionism.

                       Chip Berlet, Senior Analyst, Political Research Associates

                           _________________________________________________________

                       Theocracy is derived from the two Greek words Qeo/j(Theos) meaning
                       "God" and kra/tein (cratein) meaning "to rule." The Reverend Rod
                       Parsley, a champion of theocracy, or what he calls a
                       "christocracy," told his congregation at the World Harvest Church,
                       located just outside Columbus, Ohio, "Theocracy means God is in
                       control, and you are not." more

                       The theocratic right seeks to establish dominion, or control over
                       society in the name of God. The late D. James Kennedy, former
                       pastor of Coral Ridge Ministries, called on his followers to
                       exercise "godly dominion ... over every aspect ... of human
                       society." At a "Reclaiming America for Christ" conference in
                       February, 2005, Kennedy said:

                           "Our job is to reclaim America for Christ, whatever the cost.
                           As the vice regents of God, we are to exercise godly dominion
                           and influence over our neighborhoods, our schools, our
                           government, our literature and arts, our sports arenas, our
                           entertainment media, our news media, our scientific endeavors
                           -- in short, over every aspect and institution of human
                           society."

                       Twenty-five years ago, dominionists targeted the Republican Party
                       as the vehicle through which they could advance their agenda. At
                       the same time, a small group of Republican strategists targeted
                       fundamentalist, Pentecostal and charismatic churches to expand the
                       base of the Republican Party. This web site is not about
                       traditional Republicans or conservative Christians. It is about
                       the manipulation of people of a certain faith for political power.
                       It is about the rise of dominionists in the U.S. federal
                       government.

                           Today's hard right seeks total dominion. It's packing the
                           courts and rigging the rules. The target is not the Democrats
                           but democracy itself. more

                       According to acclaimed journalist and television host Bill Moyers,

                           "True, people of faith have always tried to bring their
                           interpretation of the Bible to bear on American laws and
                           morals ... it's the American way, encouraged and protected by
                           the First Amendment.  But what is unique today is that the
                           radical religious right has succeeded in taking over one of
                           America's great political parties. The country is not yet a
                           theocracy but the Republican Party is, and they are driving
                           American politics, using God as a a battering ram on almost
                           every issue: crime and punishment, foreign policy, health
                           care, taxation,  energy,  regulation, social services and so
                           on."  more

                       (To read the rest of the Home Page that was on this site before
                       the 2006 midterm elections, click here.)

                       Back from the Brink

                       Before the midterm elections of 2006, dominionists controlled both
                       houses of the U.S. Congress, the White House and four out of nine
                       seats on the U.S. Supreme Court. They were one seat away from
                       holding a solid majority on the Supreme Court. As of January 1,
                       2007, dominionists will not control the leadership of either house
                       of Congress, and the President will no longer be able to so easily
                       appoint dominionists to the federal courts.

                       Five of the Republican Senators who were unseated on November 7
                       received whopping scores of 100% from the Family Research Council
                       and Focus on the Family Voter Scorecards. Those Senators are:
                       Conrad Burns (R-MT), George Allen (R-VA), Rick Santorum (R-PA),
                       James Talent (R-MO), and Mike DeWine (R-OH). Rick Santorum was the
                       number three ranking Republican in the party. Santorum and Allen
                       both had Presidential ambitions. (FRC and FOF are the most
                       politically influential of dominionist organizations.) For more
                       discussion of the elections go to Talk To Action.

                       Where do we go from here?

                       Dominionists were very close to controlling all three branches of
                       the federal government from which they could impose their narrow
                       interpretation of scripture on the rest of society. People so
                       close to full political power are not going to go away. The
                       American people need to maintain vigilance and understand the
                       history of how dominionists came to political power. And we need
                       to embrace democracy with a passion -- for it was voter apathy
                       that allowed leaders like Pat Robertson to get so many
                       dominionists elected to Congress in the first place.

                        

                                                 ┏━━━━━━━━━━━┓
                                                 ┃ Next Page ┃
                                                 ┗━━━━━━━━━━━┛

                                                      

                        Organizations monitoring or challenging the Religious Right:
                   ┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┯━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
                   ┃ Americans United for Separation of      │ Talk To Action           ┃
                   ┃ Church and State                        │                          ┃
                   ┠─────────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┨
                   ┃ Political Research Associates           │ People for the American  ┃
                   ┃                                         │ Way                      ┃
                   ┠─────────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┨
                   ┃ Interfaith Alliance                     │ Americans for Religious  ┃
                   ┃                                         │ Liberty                  ┃
                   ┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┷━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛
                   Last updated: February, 2011
                   home | contact | about us
