Skip to content

Canadian Atheist Bus Campaign – Official Website

There is no god anymore divine than Yourself – Walt Whitman

Online for five and a half years and counting!

The Canadian Atheist Bus Campaign website has been online and accessible
globally for over 5.5 years with viewers coming from around the world to learn
more about our advertisement, secularism, humanism, and atheism. Today I spent
a few hours updating WordPress plugins, removing dead links to old off-site
news articles that are no longer available, and ensuring the website continues
to be accessible in the future.

For those interested in t-shirts, mugs, stickers, and other swag, all of these
are still available on our online shop and I’ve made an addition based on
request – shirts that also say “There’s probably no Allah”. While Allah/God
have the same meaning, in the spirit of inclusiveness I wanted to ensure the
two most widely used names to describe the “almighty” were available.

On another note, in review of our website’s demographics I’ve discovered in the
past 5 years atheistbus.ca has been accessed by almost every country on the
planet including every country in North America and Europe and all but
5 countries in Asia. In total, based on 249 country codes in ISO 3166-1,  221
have had visitors to atheistbus.ca. The tens of thousands of views (unique page
views) have mostly come from from Canada, US, UK, and Australia, however,
notable unexpected countries include 50 unique visitors from Pakistan, 41 from
Iran, and 35 from Saudi Arabia.

Thanks to everyone who has made the campaign so successful in the past. To new
and returning visitors, updates are few and far between but the site will
remain online for years to come as a resource to anyone hoping to learn more
about the Canadian Atheist Bus Campaign.

 

[e2f85]Author ChrisPosted on August 7, 2014August 10, 2014Categories Updates

Brand New Atheist Bus Campaign hits B.C.

 

The 2010 Canadian Atheist Bus Campaign running in British Columbia is a project
of Centre for Inquiry Canada which promotes and advances reason, science,
secularism and freedom of inquiry in all areas of human endeavour. Click HERE
to donate directly to this campaign in BC. Your donation will have a direct
impact on how long and on how many buses this campaign will be run.

Centre for Inquiry Canada has also launched a nation-wide campaign entitled 
Extraordinary Claims featuring bus ads, educational events and online
discussions. It challenges well-known and widely believed claims by demanding
evidence as extraordinary as the claims themselves.

[7ab30]Author JustinPosted on December 2, 2010December 27, 2012Categories 
Advertising, Campaign Updates10 Comments on Brand New Atheist Bus Campaign hits
B.C.

CFI Canada Launches New Campaign

[landscape-format3]

The Centre for Inquiry Canada‘s Extraordinary Claims Campaign will feature bus
ads, educational events and online discussions to challenge well-known and
widely believed claims by demanding evidence as extraordinary as the claims
themselves.

Why is belief in Bigfoot dismissed as delusional while belief in Allah and
Christ is respected and revered? All of these claims are equally extraordinary
and demand critical examination.
At CFI Canada we challenge ideas and ask tough questions to promote reason,
science, secularism and freedom of inquiry.
Pending adequate financial support from individuals like yourself, we intend to
run the two ads featured on this page on public transit:

Join or Donate to the Extraordinary Claims Campaign!

Contact us at ecc@cficanada.ca

[cfi-canada-l]

[7ab30]Author JustinPosted on December 2, 2010December 2, 2010Categories 
Advertising, Campaign Updates, Discussion2 Comments on CFI Canada Launches New
Campaign

Event: Humanist Association of Ottawa Discusses Activism and Atheist Ads This
Friday!

The Humanist Association of Ottawa will be hosting a discussion with David
Burton, an atheist ad campaign worker and HAO board member, on humanist
activism, the atheist bus campaign, a supreme court decision, and the
significance of all three to Humanists. If you’re in the Ottawa area this
Friday at 7:30pm, please join HAO for this event. Details below.

Topic: Humanist Activism, The “Atheist Bus Ad” Campaign, Supreme Court
Decision, their significance to nonbelievers, Humanists and the HAO.

Speaker: Humanist Dave “B”,  Member of the Ottawa Civil Liberties Committee

Time: Friday, October 16 @ 7:30pm

Location: Jean Talon Building, Tunney’s Pasture, North on Holland Ave. past
Scott St., Building No.# 170.

Humanist Association of Ottawa Meeting
Topic: Humanist Activism, The “Atheist Bus Ad” Campaign, Supreme Court
Decision, their significance to nonbelievers, Humanists and the HAO….
Speaker: Humanist Dave “B”
Member of the Ottawa Civil Liberties Committee
Time: Friday, October 16 @ 7:30pm
Location: Jean Talon Building, Tunney’s Pasture, North on Holland Ave. past
Scott St., Building No.# 170….Humanist Association of Ottawa Meeting

Topic: Humanist Activism, The “Atheist Bus Ad” Campaign, Supreme Court
Decision, their significance to nonbelievers, Humanists and the HAO….

Speaker: Humanist Dave “B”
Member of the Ottawa Civil Liberties Committee

Time: Friday, October 16 @ 7:30pm

Location: Jean Talon Building, Tunney’s Pasture, North on Holland Ave. past
Scott St., Building No.# 170….

[e2f85]Author ChrisPosted on October 13, 2009Categories Events1 Comment on
Event: Humanist Association of Ottawa Discusses Activism and Atheist Ads This
Friday!

Greenpeace: There’s Probably No Cod

Greenpeace signs in Halifax and Ottawa warn of dangerously low cod levels in
the atlantic.Greenpeace signs in Halifax and Ottawa warn of dangerously low cod
levels in the atlantic.

I came across this interesting advertisement through a friend on facebook.
Greenpeace is out to remind us that Atlantic cod levels are running so low that
they are at risk of irreversible damage. Continued fishing might possibly wipe
out the entire species. Not only is this problem with cod, but many other
sealife species around the world.

The curious part of the advertisement is that Greenpeace has mimicked our
atheist ad style to try and garner more attention.  What a great idea. They
have purchased four weeks of advertising time on buses and a billboard in
Halifax, and one billboard in Ottawa.

For more reading and information about the Atlantic cod crisis, please visit
Greenpeace’s website here. To do your part of ensuring you are not eating
endangered sea life, take a look at the seafood market redlist Greenpeace has
produced.

[e2f85]Author ChrisPosted on August 13, 2009August 13, 2009Categories MediaTags
&, greenpeace, halifax, now let's stop overfishing, ottawa, there's probably no
cod, think of the future1 Comment on Greenpeace: There’s Probably No Cod

Kevin Kindred on Maritime Morning in Halifax

Kevin Kindred, spokesperson in Halifax for the Atheist Bus Campaign, was asked
to participate in a discussion this morning about our atheist ads on Maritime
Morning (News 95.7 in Halifax). Click the following link to listen to the
discussion http://filesocial.com/1aedlsu.

Great job Kevin.

[e2f85]Author ChrisPosted on July 14, 2009July 14, 2009Categories Discussion
Tags 95.7, Discussion, halifax, interview, kevin kindred, maritime morning,
radio

Atheist Ads on the Horizon in Halifax

A few months ago, you may recall that our ad was rejected by Metro Transit in
Halifax due to its supposed controversial nature. You may also recall that a
case was put forward under the Supreme Court of Canada with regards to British
Columbia transit officials refusing to carry political messages on the side of
their buses, and that this would be a guiding case for our atheist ads.

    British Columbia transit officials were on the wrong side of the Charter
    when they refused to carry messages on the sides of their buses aimed at
    provincial voters, the country’s top court said today.

    The Supreme Court of Canada struck down transit policies banning all
    political ads, saying they violate rights to free speech.

    “Like a city street, a city bus is a public place where individuals can
    openly interact with each other and their surroundings,” wrote Justice
    Marie Deschamps in the 8-0 ruling.

    All nine judges heard the case in March 2008 but Justice Michel Bastarache
    has since retired.

    “I do not see any aspect of the location that suggests that expression
    within it would undermine the values underlying free expression,” Deschamps
    wrote. “On the contrary, the space allows for expression by a broad range
    of speakers to a large public audience.

    “I therefore conclude that the side of a bus is a location where expressive
    activity is protected by … the Charter.”

    The judgment was being watched by cities across Canada that have so far
    rejected atheist bus banners declaring: “There’s probably no God. Now stop
    worrying and enjoy your life.”

    The ruling protecting political ads will be viewed as a boon to those
    hoping to buy bus space for their atheist message. (To continue reading,
    click here) – Toronto Star

This is great news for free speech but also great news for our atheist ad.
Metro transit informed us months ago that they would revise their policy on
advertising what some may deem ‘controversial’,  if the courts ruled in favour
of the Canadian Federation of Students. We are hopeful that Metro Transit will
make good on their stated intentions and reconsider our proposed advertisements
with as little additional delay as possible.

More news to be posted as it becomes available, in the mean time you can sign
up on our discussion board and start talking with other atheists at http://
atheistdiscussion.com. Atheist Discussion began with the Canadian Atheist Bus
Campaign and is now the home discussion board for both the Canadian and also
Indiana Atheist Bus Campaign.

*UPDATE* – July 11, 2:30pm. It appears that Metro Transit will accept our ad
according to TheChronicalHerold.ca

    A Supreme Court of Canada decision on freedom of speech in bus advertising
    means Metro Transit will run atheist ads from a national organization.

    […] “Yes, when they apply, they can . . . purchase the ads.” [said Lori
    Patterson] (Full article, click here)

On Monday we will be applying. Stay tuned for more details.

[e2f85]Author ChrisPosted on July 10, 2009July 11, 2009Categories Campaign
Updates, MediaTags atheist, halifax, halifax metro transit2 Comments on Atheist
Ads on the Horizon in Halifax

More Pictures from Ottawa

The Humansit Association of Ottawa has done a phenominal job in trying to bring
the Atheist Bus Campaign to Ottawa. They have fought hard, worked hard, and
spent a lot of time trying to reverse the decision made by OC Transpo. I am
proud to have worked with such dedicated humanists and atheists and I recommend
that if you live in Ottawa and are looking for a community of atheists, take a
look at their website and get in contact with them http://ottawa.humanists.net.
 

Here are some photos of the HAO with one of the 24 OC Transpo buses our ad is
on:

[flickrset id=”72157616560030645″ thumbnail=”square” overlay=”true” size=
”large”]

On a side note, paypal has suspended our donation account so please hang on to
your money until we sort it out.

[e2f85]Author ChrisPosted on April 27, 2009April 27, 2009Categories PhotosTags 
hao, humanist association of ottawa, oc transpo, ottawa12 Comments on More
Pictures from Ottawa

Atheist Bus In Other Countries

Below are a few videos from other atheist bus campaigns around the world. The
first from the Indiana Atheist Bus Campaign, who have very kindly linked to our
discussion board as a place to discuss atheism. Check out their cool video
below and also their website – http://inatheistbus.org.

Atheist Bus in Spain:

This video below is from a British comedy called “Have I Got News For You”. The
episode aired last fall.

The next is from a show called University Challenge:

More to come soon.

[e2f85]Author ChrisPosted on April 20, 2009April 20, 2009Categories Media, TV
ShowTags have I got news for you, indiana, spain, united kingdom, united states
of america, university challenge, videos3 Comments on Atheist Bus In Other
Countries

Recap of Atheist Ads in Ottawa

ATHEIST BUS ADS IN OTTAWA
By Julie Breeze (Director, Humanist Association of Ottawa)

The Humanist Association of Ottawa has been working to bring ads to Ottawa
buses saying: THERE’S PROBABLY NO GOD. NOW STOP WORRYING AND ENJOY YOUR LIFE.

We are part of an international movement which began in Britain last June. A
woman named Ariane Sherine went to a website advertised on a London bus and
read that non-Christians will“spend all eternity in torment in hell. Jesus
spoke about this as a lake of fire which was prepared for the devil and all his
angels.”

Disgusted, she decided to counter with an ad of her own. She teamed up with
Richard Dawkins, author of The God Delusion, and the British Humanist
Association, and set the goal of raising ￡5500 (about $10,000 Canadian) for
their own counter-ads. Dawkins pledged to match all donations up to ￡5500.
They settled on the slogan THERE’S PROBABLY NO GOD. NOW STOP WORRYING AND ENJOY
YOUR LIFE. “Ours is a fun and light-hearted message,” said Sherine, “but it
does have a serious point to it: that atheists want a secular country. We want
a secular school (system) and a secular government.”

In spite of there being no plan or funding for soliciting donations, the money
flooded in. The original fundraising target was met within twenty-four hours.
Today the total raised in Britain is in excess of ￡140,000, which is being
used to put bus ads in twenty cities across the nation.

The idea is spreading rapidly around the world. At the time of writing, groups
of Freethinkers have placed ads in Canada, Italy, Spain, the Netherlands, and
the USA. Groups are working on ads in Germany, Australia, Finland, Switzerland,
and Croatia.

Toronto, Calgary, and Montreal accepted and ran the atheist ads. Halifax’s
Metro Transit initially rejected the PROBABLY NO GOD ads on the basis that they
were offensive, though they said they would reconsider Humanist Canada’s YOU
CAN BE GOOD WITHOUT GOD if they “toned down the message” (!)  Vancouver,
Victoria, Kelowna BC, and London, ON do not accept religious advertising on
their buses, and so rejected atheist advertising also.

Halifax transit officials announced they will be forced to reconsider their
decision once the Supreme Court hands down a verdict in a pending related case.
The Canadian Federation of Students and BC Teachers’ Federation are currently
appealing BC TransLink’s decision not to allow their political advertising on
Vancouver public transit on the grounds that this violates their right to
freedom of expression. Given that BC TransLink is a public rather than a
private company, and is thus obliged to follow public standards concerning
freedom of speech, their success seems likely, and is expected to have a great
impact on other Canadian cities’ decisions of whether to allow atheist bus ads.
In Genoa, Italy, the Catholic Church forced atheists to change their slogan
from The bad news is that God doesn’t exist. The good news is that we don’t
need him to The good news is that there are millions of atheists in Italy. The
best news is that they believe in freedom of expression.

In Australia not only was the  “probably no god” message refused, but even
Celebrate reason: Sleep in on Sunday mornings and Atheism – Celebrate reason
were turned down by the largest outdoor ad company in the country.

The Freedom from Religion Foundation in the United States came up with very
creative ads, including

d1m1s1

The atheist bus ads have become such a household word that the United Church of
Canada has started running their own ad.

w1

Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.

People have opened their wallets to the campaign because they feel it gives a
public voice to their point of view, in a way never seen before. It gives them
a sense of solidarity with other atheists. They derive satisfaction from giving
confidence to other nonbelievers and doubters who may feel bound by a need to
appease religious family and friends.

The Humanist Association of Ottawa teamed up with the Freethought Association
of Canada and atheistbus.ca to put Sherine’s ads on Ottawa buses. We were told
that the Transit Committee had rejected our ads, but Pattision, the company
which places advertising on the buses, offered us a discounted rate on roadside
billboard ads instead. We thought about the billboards but decided to stick
with our original application, since
OC Transpo had previously approved a number of Christian ads for the buses and
we saw no reason why we should not receive equal treatment.

The HAO Board met on February 17th. Realizing that City councilor Alex Cullen,
the Chair of the Transit Committee, had decided to ask the reason for OC
Transpo’s rejection of our ads at a Transit Committee meeting the following
day, it became clear through discussion that we should go to City Hall right
before the meeting to make our opinion known.

The HAO put out a press release that night to every English-language media
outlet in the Ottawa area. We contacted as many members as we could reach at
the last minute. Seanna Watson (HAO President) spent most of the night making T
shirts saying “Why not in Ottawa?” with our ad slogan. We didn’t think we’d be
allowed to carry signs in City Hall, but we were pretty sure clothing was
permitted (or even required).

In spite of the short notice, four of us were able to make it the next morning.
We stood somewhat nervously in front of the door to the meeting room, not sure
what would happen. There had been no time to apply for a permit or ask about
rules. We didn’t know if we were allowed to be there, if we would be asked to
leave, or if we were even at risk of being arrested.

And then the first cameraman showed up. We put blue tape over our mouths and
waited. He came up and began photographing us. Then more people arrived. One
asked us tentatively “Would you speak to us?”

I have never been too free with identifying myself as an atheist, for fear of
the silent discrimination in our society. People almost never ask my religion,
and if they do ask what they really want to know is whether I am part of their
own particular denomination. I tell them I’m a Humanist.

That day we were surrounded by microphones, still cameras, and TV cameras.
Everybody wanted to know our names and why we were there. It was just like a
movie scene of a media scrum. I felt like after a lifetime of keeping my toes
dry I was suddenly standing on the edge of the high diving board.

I took a deep breath and jumped in.

That day we were all over the news. I heard we were on CBC radio at noon, even
before the vote had been taken at the meeting. We were on the television news,
the radio, and in every one of the five daily English and French newspapers in
the Ottawa area. The publicity was phenomenal!

Once the reporters had had the chance to interview and photograph us to their
hearts’ content, we learned that we were allowed to attend the Transit
Committee meeting. Alex Cullen even came over and told showed us the form we
should fill out if we wished to have up to five minutes to address the
Committee.

It took most of the day to get to the bus ad issue, with the journalists coming
up to us periodically to take more photos or ask more questions. When the
matter came up, Alain Mercier, the Manager of OC Transpo, waffled around a bit,
ultimately giving several reasons for his staff’s decision to reject the ads.
He said that the policy stated that religious advertising was unacceptable
unless it advertised a specific event, with a date and time listed. (Nothing
wrong with that policy, except that OC Transpo had previously accepted ads from
the Anglican Church, the Pentecostal Church, and Bus Stop Bible Studies, none
of which listed specific events, times, and places.) He said that they felt
that our ad could be offensive to Transit riders, and that they had wanted to
avoid controversy. Oops.

David Burton (another HAO director) addressed the Transit Committee, making a
wonderful case for why we should be allowed to run the ads. Then another member
of the public, Teresa Milligan, took a turn to speak. She stated that atheists
should never be allowed to run ads, since the Stalinist Soviet Union was
atheistic and they had committed
terrible atrocities, killing millions of people. Atheists are therefore
dangerous people who should not be allowed to air their views.

When I heard that I knew that we could never let these ideas go unchallenged.
Even though I had not planned to speak, and had not prepared any remarks, I
quickly grabbed a “Request to Speak” form and scribbled in the required
information as fast as I could before Milligan finished her five minutes of
speaking time. A man appeared and took the form from my hand, and I was called
to the microphone. I explained to the committee that Humanists never advocate
or participate in violence of any kind, and that far more atrocities have been
committed in the name of religion than in the name of Atheism. I cited the
bombing of the World Trade Centre as one such example. One of the Guiding
Principles of Humanism is that we advocate the peaceful resolution of
conflicts. (I later discovered that Stalin’s evil was in fact committed in the
name of Communism
rather than Atheism.)

The six councilors present at the meeting discussed the ads for a while prior
to the vote on overturning the ban, with Cullen calling the ads censorship and
a denial of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms’ guarantee of freedom
of speech. Councilor Marianne Wilkinson stated that she found the ad offensive
to her as a Christian.  ‘It grates on me,’ she whined. They voted 3-3, not
enough to overturn the ban, so Cullen said that he would bring the matter to a
full City Council meeting on March 11.

cchildren

This time we had a chance to be much better prepared. Seanna added a back to
the T-shirts which listed all 15 cities around the world where atheist bus ads
were already running, along the lines of a rock concert tour, with Ottawa? at
the bottom. We got together two dozen people from as far away as Bowmanville
for a protest at the start of the meeting on March 11, and had lots more press
coverage. There was a group of children who had been bussed in from a Christian
school to protest our ads.

A new member of HAO, Paul LeClair, had written a song about the bus ads titled
“Freedom of Expression”. He played it for the press, and then went outside to
serenade the Christian schoolchildren with it.

At the meeting we learned that Alex Cullen had asked the City’s legal team to
analyze the City’s chances of upholding their ban of our ads should we decide
to take the matter to court. They released a six-page document giving all the
reasons and precedents why the City hadn’t a hope of winning any such lawsuit.
The City lawyer estimated the cost to the city of such a battle at about
$10,000 – 20,000.

Marianne Wilkinson and her cronies on the council had another try at banning
the ads, wanting to rewrite the city’s policy so as to exclude them. They had
no particular plan of how they could word such a policy, given the legal
opinion that it couldn’t be done, but their move would at least postpone the
ads’ debut. Mayor Larry O’Brien spoke about the inter-faith council which he
chairs, and said that everybody on the council felt that the ads should be
allowed to run. In spite of this, he later voted to uphold the ban.

Alain Mercier was on the hot seat again, and was forced to admit that had he
known that the ban would never stand up to a court challenge he would not have
suggested it in the first place. At this point there were about fifteen of us
sitting together in the public seats. Even though the public is not allowed to
speak at full city council meetings, we were quite noticeable in our white T
shirts, and the councilors were clearly aware of our presence, referring to us
several times during the debate. At one point Cullen mentioned that the city
“hadn’t a prayer” of winning a legal challenge, and the councilor beside him
gestured towards us chuckling in the audience, commenting “They got it!”

Whether due to personal convictions that it was the right thing to do, or from
distaste at the idea of  wasting city money on an unwinnable legal battle, the
Council voted 13-7 in favour of running our ads. The ads have been running on
Ottawa buses since 7 April.

You can read more about the worldwide atheist bus campaign in the Summer
edition of HumanistPerspectives, expected to be published in June.

[e2f85]Author ChrisPosted on April 16, 2009Categories DiscussionTags Alex
Cullen, children, christian children, hao, humanist association of ottawa,
julie breeze, ottawa10 Comments on Recap of Atheist Ads in Ottawa

Posts navigation

Page 1 Page 2 … Page 6 Next page

Atheist Bus Shop

Canadian Atheist Bus Shop

  • Home
  • Press Releases
  • About
  • Photos
  • Share
  • FAQ
  • Atheism
  • Contact

Links: Campaigns Around the Globe

  • Australia – Atheist Foundation
  • Finland – Uskotamon bussikampanja
  • Germany – Bus Kampagne
  • Italy – Campagna Bus
  • Netherlands – Atheïstische Reklamecampagne
  • Quebec – Bus Humaniste
  • Spain – Bus Ateo
  • Switzerland – Atheist Bus
  • USA – Seattle Atheists

Archives

  • August 2014
  • December 2010
  • October 2009
  • August 2009
  • July 2009
  • April 2009
  • March 2009
  • February 2009
  • January 2009

Canadian Atheist Bus Campaign – Official Website Proudly powered by WordPress
