Skip navigation.

 
 
 
 
 
 

  • home
      □ HOME
      □ Synopsis
      □ Why the International Brights Movement?
      □ Videos
      □ Comprehension Self-Check
  • the vision
      □ THE VISION
      □ Bright's Principles
      □ Civic Considerations
      □ Naturalistic Worldview Considerations
          ☆ Understanding a World View
          ☆ Examining the World View Spectrum (PDF)
          ☆ Brights and Supers Compaired (PDF)
      □ Symbolism
      □ FAQs
      □ Curing Misconceptions
      □ Tagline Talk
      □ Word Talk
      □ Backtalk!
      □ Essays on the Brights
  • the people
      □ THE PEOPLE
      □ Enthusiastic Brights
      □ Blogging Brights
      □ Books by Brights
      □ Comments by Brights
      □ Brights Sound Bites
      □ Expressions and Illuminations
      □ Brights Central
  • the movement
      □ THE MOVEMENT
      □ A Synopsis
      □ Making a Movement
      □ Brights Videos
          ☆ Main Page
          ☆ Brights Talk
          ☆ Civic Umbrella for a Wide-range Diversity
          ☆ Brand new Term / Brand New Meaning
          ☆ Inside the Brights Network
      □ Being a Bright - A How-To
      □ Examples of Participation
      □ Expressing Your Naturalistic Worldview
      □ Brights Merchandise
      □ Brights' Toolbox
          ☆ Describing "What Brights Want"
          ☆ Confronting Mortality
          ☆ How Can You Be Moral
          ☆ Responses to "God Bless You"
          ☆ Responses to "I'll Pray for You"
          ☆ Responses to Child's "Human Origins" Query
          ☆ Exclamations & Expletives
      □ The Brights' Bulletin
      □ Icons, Logos, & Banner Downloads
      □ The Brights Community
          ☆ Discussion Forum
          ☆ Brights' Community Clusters
          ☆ Brights-Friendly Meetups
          ☆ Bumping Into Brights
          ☆ Other Brights Sites
  • the action
      □ THE ACTION
      □ Register
      □ Activities
      □ Support the Brights
      □ Concepts
  • community 
      □ COMMUNITY
      □ Discussion Forums
      □ Brights' Community Clusters
      □ Brights-Friendly Meetups
      □ Bumping Into Brights
      □ Other Brights Sites

Who are The Brights?

[people_brochure_pic]

  • We are participants in an international internet constituency of
    individuals. All of us have a naturalistic worldview, free of supernatural
    or mystical elements.
  • A Bright's ethics and actions are based on a naturalistic worldview.
  • The Brights aspire to an egalitarian civic vision. We want citizens who
    have a naturalistic worldview to be accepted as full participants in civil
    society

Definitions:
A "super" (noun) is a person whose worldview includes supernatural and/or
mystical elements.
A "bright" (n.) is a person whose worldview is naturalistic (no supernatural
and mystical elements).
A "Bright" is a bright who has registered at this website in support of the
egalitarian civic vision of the Brights movement.

What is the Challenge?

Currently, the naturalistic worldview is insufficiently expressed within most
cultures - even politically and socially repressed. To be a Bright is to
participate in a movement to address the situation.

There is a great diversity of persons who have a naturalistic worldview. Some
are members of existing organizations that foster a supernatural-free
perspective, but far more are not associated with any formal group or label.
Under the broad umbrella of the naturalistic worldview, participants in the
constituency of Brights can undertake social and civic actions designed to
influence a society otherwise permeated with supernaturalism.

This website registers brights into the constituency (of Brights) and serves as
a communications hub for actions that align with the aims and principles of the
Brights movement.

Featured Projects:

[evolution_project_button] [morality_project_button]

What's this project about?    What's this project
                                    about?

Support Our Vision

The Brights' Net is entirely funded by personal donations of individuals from
across the globe. Most are brights. But there are supers who also want to help
advance the civic vision of the Brights movement. Whether you are a bright or a
super, if you would like to support this vision of civic equality for the
citizens who have a naturalistic worldview, please consider becoming a
"checkbook activist" by following this link:

                               [support_button]

Is Your Worldview Naturalistic?

Think about your own worldview to decide if it is free of supernatural or
mystical deities, forces, and entities.

If you decide that you fit the description above, then you are, by definition,
a bright!

On this website, you can simply say so and, by doing so, join with brights from
all over the world in an extraordinary initiative to elevate the thinking of
society—the Brights movement.

                               [register_button]

With the information you provide, we count you a Bright in your locale (by
nation and/or postal code), but we will never release your name, e-mail, or
address to anyone without your express written permission. After enrollment,
you may manage your subscription settings from the link on this page to receive
or not receive the monthly e-mail bulletins.

The Brights Movement

  • Synopsis
  • Videos
  • Comprehension Self-Check
  • Read the Latest Bulletin

Search This Site
[                    ]
[Search]
 

Supporting the Brights

  • Financial Support
      □ Online Donations
      □ eBay Giving Works
      □ iGive.com Shopping
      □ Amazon Purchases
  • Activism
      □ Individual Activities
      □ Volunteer

Register as a Bright

Edit Registration, change your email, address, profile, and more

Forgot Password?

Enthusiastic Brights

[1x1]


━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  • Register
  • Support the Brights
  • Contact Us
  • Privacy
  • Accessibility
  • Top of Page

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

The Brights' Net
P.O. Box 163418
Sacramento, CA 95816 USA

E-mail: the-brights@the-brights.net
To be counted as a Bright, please use the registration form.

Copyright (C) 2016 The Brights' Network. All rights reserved.

 

Creative Commons License
"the brights" logo by The Brights' Net is licensed under a Creative Commons
License.
Based on a work at the-brights.net.
Permissions beyond the scope of this license may be available at http://
the-brights.net.

