[header]

Atheist Parents: Parenting Without Belief

[image]

Welcome To Atheist Parents.org! 

 

Thank you for visiting the new internet site of www.atheistparents.org. We are
dedicated to helping parents worldwide to raise well-educated, thoughtful,
ethical, socially responsible, environmentally aware, and most importantly,
godless children. Your journey as a parent raising atheist children will
definitely not be as easy as saying "Cuz Jesus made it that way," or "The devil
made me do it." Yet as your children grow up as educated atheists in a world
without gods, without fear of eternal damnation for thought crimes as an 8 year
old, they will thank you in more ways than you can imagine.


Sign Up for the Newsletter

[image]

 

 

Sign up for the "Atheist Parents Newsletter" (sent approximately 4 times a
year) and get up-to-date information on raising Atheist Children. 

 

Click here to sign up.


Home Schooling Without Religion? Almost Impossible!

3 Reasons Why Humanist Homeschoolers Help Is Going To Change Secular
Homeschooling

[image]

1. Public perception about American homeschoolers is that they are generally
religious. This is fairly accurate and so most curricula is authored,
published, sold, and used by Christian homeschoolers. Secular homeschooling
families traditionally have to rely on non-textbook resources, texts written
and published overseas, or heavily edited copies of Christian curricula.
Humanist Homeschoolers Help will provide a low-cost option for many families
who need a quality secular resource for their homeschool. Our goal is to get as
many secular families matched up with a secular resource (one that they may not
even know exists!) as possible.

2. Secular resources in this country are new enough that they are often pricey
even when used. Humanist Homeschoolers Help intends to take on that burden of
purchasing curricula and books so that more families can have access to what
they need. To Continue Reading Click Here

The new book from David G. McAfee

[image]

What is belief and why is it so important? Where did it come from and what does
it do? This book answers all of those questions and more! David G. McAfee, an
author who studies religions, teamed up with writer and illustrator Chuck
Harrison to create The Belief Book. 

No matter how old or how young you are, this easy-to-read book can help you
learn more about religions and gods and beliefs in general. It will also teach
you about something called The Scientific Method, which is how we learn new
things about the world! 

By the time you're done reading you will know the answers to some of life's
biggest questions, but more importantly you will see why your questions, and
all questions for that matter, are so important. This book is the first in a
series of books all about belief, gods, and religion. 

The fully illustrated and interactive Belief Book is for readers and thinkers
of all ages, including kids and kids at heart.

click here to purchase

The Interview with Lance Gregorchuk Author of „Born Again Atheist“

[image]

AP: Hello, Lance. Your new book, “Born Again Atheist: The Arguments for the
Facts,” has now been released by Enlightened Publishing and you have described
the book as a real “Game Changer.” Why do you think that?

 

LG: Well, like my last book, I wrote this one for my children. As you know, I
wrote my children’s book “Great Without Religion” two years ago so I could
teach my children at a young age about the scientific method, about
understanding facts and fiction, fairy tales and religion. My kids...  Continue
reading by clicking here

Get your Free Chapter

[image]

Get your free Chapter "The Ten Commandments" from the book Born Again Atheist
by Lance Gregorchuk by clicking here and get a "laugh out loud funny" insight
into Lance Gregorchuk's newest book on religion, belief systems, and the
arguments for the facts. 

The Interview with James S. Morrison

The public high school teacher in the USA who teaches a course in religion????

[image]

AP: Teaching religion in public schools must be extremely rare, right?

JSM: It is. Typically when I tell people I teach a religion class in a public
high school they look at me as if I had just barbequed a kitten. Liberals
immediately become skeptical and concerned that I’m some sort of Jesus freak
preaching Christian dogma. Evangelicals react with the same kind of skepticism,
but their immediate concern is that I’m an atheist trying to discredit God and
Jesus. Needless to say, I usually shy away from telling people what I do for a
living.

 

AP: Are you an atheist?

JSM: People ask me this all the time, and I hesitate to answer it. But the fact
that we have words such as “atheist” and “agnostic” and “deist” speaks to the
importance we put on . Continue reading click here

Thank you Cynthia for letting us re-print your blogg

An funny and sad story all at once: "Two Faced Jesus"

[image]

I was 14 years old before I had my first encounter with Jesus Christ. Up to
that point, I had heard enough about the basic story to get around in the
world—born on Christmas, raised from the dead on Easter, and the whole “Born of
a Virgin” thing. But I never had to deal with JC directly until my father
“found him” after his second failed marriage.

Up until then, I had been raised by my agnostic mother and militant atheist
grandmother, who believed that the very notion of a make-believe man in the sky
was for the weak-minded. We celebrated Christmas—by celebrate.... Read more by
clicking here

If you are currently weighing your options as a parent as to which god or
denomination you should raise your child to believe in, then you might be
interested in the following:

[image]

If a god can be defined as: "a supernatural creator and overseer of the
universe," then we must include in this definition all deities, goddesses (very
big god word for female gods) and supernatural beings. To differentiate between
old mythological gods from hundreds and thousands of years ago and modern gods
is unnecessary to answer the question "What is a God?”The fact that in Western
societies we might prefer to use JHWA, Jehovah, God, or Allah is irrelevant in
the question of god, since every belief worldwide is convinced that only their
god is the right god.
 
Children are born atheists. They are born without belief; their belief in a god
comes ONLY from their parents’ beliefs, which are also determined from the
century in which they were born and the country in which their parents were
born.

Since the beginning of recorded history, which is defined by the invention of
writing by the Sumerians around 6,000 years ago, historians have cataloged over
3,750 supernatural beings, of which 2,870 can be considered deities or gods.
Yet, those numbers are probably a very conservative estimate because we have no
accurate written information before 4000 B.C. This means any deities or gods
worshipped by man before this period are unaccounted for.

In truth, the possibilities for gods are nearly infinite. For example, in Hindu
the entire living universe is merely a unique manifestation of Ishvara. This
leads to the fact that there are 340 million "gods or goddesses" which you can
pray to right now.

Some examples of the different deities documented through the last few thousand
years are:

Greek: Zeus, Hermes, Hades, Hera, Aphrodite, and so many others

Chinese: Shangdi, Mazu, Shou Xing, Tu Di Gong, etc.

Roman: Juppiter, Mars, Terra, etc.
Norwegian: Odin, Thor, Loki, Njordr, etc.
Hindu: Krishna, Vishnu, Kali, Ishvara, etc.
Shinto: Izanagi-no-Mikoto, Izanami-no-Mikoto, etc.
Celtic: Cernunnos, Damona, Epona, etc.
Egyptian: Ra, Isis, Anubis, Osiris, Horus, etc.
Sumerian: An, Ki, Enlil, Enki, etc.
Babylonian: Sin, Marduk, Ishtar, Nabu, etc.
Persian: Simurgh, Rostam, Gaokerena, etc.
Aboriginal: Bunyip, Kurreah, Mutjinga, etc.


Yet, it must be noted that the dominant monotheistic religions of today who
declare that theirs is the only REAL and true god, say that their religion must
be better because in the past people believed in many gods and now they only
believe in one (meaning less is more). Therefore, atheism is the ultimate form
of the advancement of religion. From many gods to few gods, to one god, to no
gods. Isn’t Evolution an amazing thing?


We would love to hear your comments

Write a comment

Comments: 165

  • #1

    Kaijla (Wednesday, 08 February 2012 01:09)

    I absolutely love this! This was a great idea and very well done!

  • #2

    Amadeus (Sunday, 04 March 2012 18:46)

    Although I am an agnostic atheist, raising children as atheists is IMHO not
    much better than raising them as theists.
    Yes, lets give them all necessary tools to be able decide what to believe
    and what not at an appropriate age. But telling them "there are no gods"
    before they even know the concept of believing is kind of missionary as
    well.

  • #3

    Chad Kittrell (Sunday, 04 March 2012 19:51)

    As a father one one 5year old girl going to school in a predominantly
    Catholic area, I'm constantly frustrated when she comes home and tells me
    about the things she 'learned' in school that day. Anyone claiming that
    'God is not allowed in our public schools' has obviously not been inside of
    a school lately, and is using this line as a justification for their own
    political/religious agenda. Thank you for starting up this website, I will
    be visiting often!

  • #4

    Tiktaalik (Sunday, 04 March 2012 20:10)

    Amadeus:

    Raising your children as an atheist IS giving them the tools they need to
    decide.

    It doesn't mean you tell them outright "there is no god." That's not what
    atheism is, at any rate. Atheism is the LACK of a belief, so what exactly
    would I be doing that you believe is so similar to theism??

    I am raising my kids "as atheists", that is: I have not brainwashed them
    about deities either existing or not existing. I simply haven't talked
    about it. Instead, I'm teaching my boys how to THINK critically.

    I think you misunderstand what an atheist is; either that or you are making
    an unnecessary logical leap into thinking that "raising as an atheist"
    means some kind of indoctrination??

    IN the same way that I'm not pounding it into my boys' head that
    leprechauns are fake, I'm also not doing so in relation to deities or
    unicorns or fairies (tooth and other kinds too!)


  • #5

    Amadeus (Monday, 05 March 2012 09:45)

    Hey Tiktaalik,

    "Raising your children as an atheist IS giving them the tools they need to
    decide."

    Sorry, but this is not true. Children are non-theists as well as they are
    non-tooth-fairyists unless they are told different.
    The tools are:
    - being sceptical
    - use your senses and logic
    - think critical before you believe implausible stories to be real
    AND:
    - telling them about people who in spite of better knowing DO believe in
    supernatural things to prevent them to believe as well.

    ok sorry i start splitting hairs.
    i think at the end of the day we don't have much different about this
    issue.

  • #6

    Jim Japes (Wednesday, 07 March 2012 13:44)

    I'm a grandpa to kids in Christian schools. They sure get brainwashed, but
    Atheists have a problem in matching the centuries old and improving methods
    of religious indoctrination. I have a doc on www.daretoreason.info suitable
    for older kids 11-12 up. The problems start younger than that. We need
    Lullabies, fairy tales ( they're only fiction),that are set to traditional
    old formats and melodies for babies & kindergartens - all without any
    religious reference. Plagiarise them from other religions if necessary.
    There's no copyright.

  • #7

    Jason (Thursday, 08 March 2012 09:42)

    @Jim Japes. I am not sure atheists need to match their religious
    indoctrination, I think we can keep the traditions of Christmas and easter
    alive but just let the children know why it is celebrated on dec 25th ( dec
    21st being shortest day of year.. sun stays at same position on horizon for
    3 days, and on Dec 25th raises again, after the belt of orion, known as the
    3 kings, aligns with the star sirius showing the exact position the sun
    will raise on December 25th. Easter being celebrated on the first sunday
    after the first full moon after the spring soltice.) Pretty Pegan Stuff
    here. My kids love to tell those stories to teachers when they are asked
    about Christmas and Easter in school, my son who is 8 did a school
    presentation about the tradition of christmas, he made me so proud, and
    other kids in his class are now questioning their parents faith and their
    pagen rituals. I think his teacher will not give that assignment ever
    again.

  • #8

    Jim Japes (Monday, 12 March 2012 10:46)

    Hi Jason, Indoctrination is simply taking in the environment around babies
    & children. They don't know if they are being indoctrinated for the better
    or worse. For example,saying prayers will become a question for them from
    other children, probably before a teacher gets to them. I worry that it's a
    "nice" easy thing for them to be exposed to. Non-religious parents should
    be prepared for a substitute answer & direction. Its dangerous ground to
    even be "prayerfully wishing" Father Xmas to bring them something. I'd
    prefer to say "No we read a nice story to go to sleep. Thats better than
    saying prayers, because no-one ever hears them anyway." Stating the
    obvious? Sorry. Yes, I can see that Easter & Xmas have become so
    commecialised that it should be relatively easy for adults to not go into
    the details, but its the other kids, media etc that will do the baby Jesus
    stuff."They are fairy tales, not true stories"
    Jim.

  • #9

    Ryan (Friday, 06 April 2012 11:22)

    As a new parent I worry about what I will do when the time comes that my
    son asks me what god is. I can remember as a kid when i still believed in
    god there was a girl during recess one day who made some offhand comment
    about how Jesus couldn't have been a perfect person and I along with every
    other kid on the play ground began to berate her about this and make fun of
    her. I don't want my son to go through that when one of his friends brings
    up god and he says something like "Psh you believe that crap?".

    I have so many questions. If I don't pretend that there's a god at all for
    him at least while he's very young, should I also not pretend there's a
    Santa Claus or Easter Bunny? I guess I'm mostly worried about what other
    kids will say to him about his beliefs. My wife and I said before he was
    born that we would just not even mention it and wait for him to ask us and
    explain it to him in the way we understand it. Now though, I'm not sure if
    that would work.

  • #10

    Jen (Friday, 06 April 2012 12:23)

    @Ryan, There is a big difference between Santa and the easter bunny,
    unicorns, lepracons, the tooth fairy and the non-belief in a god. Your kid
    will without a doubt be made fun of for hundreds of things on the
    playground, he will be too short, too tall, too skinny, too fat, too slow,
    he wont wear the right clothes or sneakers, wears glasses or anything else.
    Kids make fun of other kids, that will never change. I love the fact that
    my son at 7 years old could and can discuss religion with those who believe
    (including adults) and within only a few minutes has them questioning their
    faith. Yes, as an atheist I have helped him along but he thinks people who
    believe have every right to beleive what they want as long as they keep it
    to themselves, when they do bring it up, I will not allow him to be
    bullied, he pushes back! His favorite is The fairy Tail of Noahs Arc, he
    asks people if they believe it? If they answer yes he asks "then what about
    the fish?" When they cannot answer he says "and Kangeroos, how did they get
    to Australia?" I personally love discussing religion with him. Good luck to
    you.

  • #11

    Haley (Monday, 23 April 2012 18:23)

    Just stumbled across this in hopes that I can answer my 3-yr old's question
    "what is god?".

    Uugh, we said "someone pretend that some people think is real. we know it's
    silly!"

    Haven't found anything more eloquent and simple for his level of
    understanding yet. I'm sticking with it.

    I commented to say that we don't do Santa/EasterBunny/Tooth Fairy or any of
    that other nonsense.


  • #12

    Wes (Thursday, 26 April 2012 00:08)

    @Haley:
    When my child asks, "Who is Hades?" I will respond,"The Greek god of the
    Underworld.The Greeks believed he ruled the underworld, etc" Just as I
    would any other god, so likewise when my child asks, "What/(Who) is God?"
    I'll answer, "The Christian god of the Universe. Christians believe He is
    the creator of all things, and sent his son, yadda yadda, yadda."
    As a child I never believed Zeus was real, but I was taught to understand
    that the Greeks did believe, and that was a time before science could
    explain the unexplainable. Likewise, this is how I will teach my children
    about Christian Mythology. - isn't this what we really should be calling
    it????

  • #13

    amy (Friday, 11 May 2012 06:01)

    We are atheists, but have made the mistake of not counter-indoctrinating
    our son adequately. We never raise the concept of gods--why would we (I
    thought). But now, at 7.5, he's being intensively evangelized by a
    christian friend at school. He comes home waxing about the beauties of
    heaven. (And wonders if he could convince jesus to give him a device to
    transport his atheist parents to heaven even though they don't believe,
    gotta love when they mix in the other varieties of science fiction.) I fear
    that if I'm too reactive (which I feel), it will only make the friend's
    beliefs more glamorous. Any BTDT advice? As soon as the ethical humanists
    are back in session in the fall, we'll get him there. I just never expected
    the religious peer pressure to be so strong this young.

  • #14

    pim (Sunday, 27 May 2012 13:58)

    i am an atheist, just show the child.

    this is evedince,
    this is science.
    this is what some people belive (religion). and why they believe it.
    and why you do not.

    let it think for its self. and raise him to be skeptical and openminden.


    but most importantly a moral person.


    because believes not matter. aslong as they do not negatively influence
    your life
    deeds > believes

  • #15

    Shaun (Monday, 11 June 2012 23:11)

    There is nothing wrong with telling a child "there are no gods". Just like
    you can safely tell a child "there are no fairies" or "there is no
    bigfoot". Because those things are TRUE. Saying that telling children
    "there are no gods" is similar to Christian proslytization is ridiculous.
    The burden of proof lies on the party making the positive statement. If you
    say "Vampires are real." then it's your job to prove it. Not mine. I feel
    pretty comfortable saying to my
    kids, "Vampires don't exist." Just because you can't prove something
    doesn't exist, doesn't mean it does. I have no problem with people
    believing in whatever god they choose, in my opinion it's just intellectual
    laziness and fear. As long as you're not using your belief in fairy tales
    to affect my family in any way, we're good.

  • #16

    Leslie (Tuesday, 10 July 2012 19:20)

    In the cartoon above of the religious figures pointing fingers at a young
    child, the figure on the far left looks Buddhist. Buddhists, by definition,
    are atheists. Does atheism mean not believing in a god? Or not believing in
    any doctrine/religion/philosophy?

  • #17

    Stephanie (Sunday, 22 July 2012 01:00)

    a·the·ist
    noun
    a person who denies or disbelieves the existence of a supreme being or
    beings.
    (http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/atheist?s=ts&ld=1065)

    I think I'm going to let my children reserve judgement. I share some of the
    same fears as Ryan, above. The only thing I hope to do as a parent is to
    educate my child, and I think Wes is on the right track...just inform the
    child about anything/everything they are interested in...(and maybe even
    some they aren't, so they have a wide array of general knowledge) and treat
    them all as fictional if your child questions you on your beliefs on the
    subject...? I have issue with the religious content in public school as
    well...I don't want someone telling MY kid that so-an-so IS THE WAY IT IS.
    The idea that this could take place really irritates me...

    One question I would pose to the general "atheist" here is...how do you
    feel if your child IS open-minded, well-rounded, and has done tons of
    research on many different religions...and somehow, they decide they want
    to have faith in the Christian God? What is the reaction? Do we still have
    the same open-minded view toward our now-Christian children? I would like
    to think I would...I pride myself on being accepting...and I certainly
    would not love my child any less for being gay, Christian, or really really
    into Country music. Thoughts?

  • #18

    Steph (Sunday, 29 July 2012 18:10)

    I have the problem of simply just believing in the most logical reason. At
    5 years old I began questioning my family's religion. Came out to my family
    after 20 years of anxiety of the whole thing as an atheist. And of course
    my answer to their whys is not satisfactory to them. My reason is simply
    because its not logical. So I now feel the need to instead of waiting for
    my kids to be influenced by my family's radicalism to give them a good
    boost and
    Help them to argue and question everything. How do I do this? My kids are
    3,4 and 5. I don't want them to experience the same anxieties I had to
    endure for years by myself.

  • #19

    P. S. (Friday, 10 August 2012 19:36)

    I am an atheist with two well-adjusted children who are 17 and 14. I have
    taken the stance that belief in God or a certain religion is their choice.
    I tell them the reason I believe or rather do not believe as I do and
    encourage them to follow their own hearts. We have gone to church when
    visiting friends and family who are church goers. And I tell them I believe
    there are good things in religion such as some of the 10 commandments, do
    not lie, steal, kill, etc, and "treat others like you would like to be
    treated" - that all people should live by. I explain that no one should
    have the right to tell them or anyone else what to believe because it is a
    personal choice. No one walking this earth knows anything concrete or
    irrefutable about God and as soon as they say they do they should not be
    trusted. Maybe we were created but God, if there is one, is staying out of
    the picture and letting us figure things out for ourselves. Maybe the more
    we understand about the world we live in the closer we come to God. On the
    topic of death I told them it is the path in life we all follow. No one has
    ever come back except those who had near death experiences and seem to have
    enjoyed it. Life is short so live it with wonder, love, and friendship.

  • #20

    Dawn (Friday, 17 August 2012 02:02)

    Thank you for the great info - having 2 young boys 9/11 - the questions are
    starting. They are very aware of our beliefs as atheists , but will come to
    their own choices. Thanks for the wonderful words of advice!

  • #21

    Saddened (Tuesday, 21 August 2012 20:13)

    While I'm not entirely surprised, it is rather disturbing to see a resource
    available for non-believers to push atheism on to their children. I do
    understand every parent has the right to raise up their child(ren) in his/
    her own way, but the entire concept of parental roles is defined right in
    the Bible for both the father and the mother. How do you explain that away?
    How do you explain that which cannot be proven by science and fact because
    it transcends our understanding?

    Yes, I do know that I am in the absolutely wrong forum to bring these
    things up, but on the other hand, I hope that by relaying that atheism does
    not in itself disprove the existence of God that maybe some parent who is
    "on the fence" may realize that they do NOT know everything. They would be
    doing a huge disservice to their own child to work hard to disprove the
    existence of God while feverishly trying to explain away their child's
    questions about the creation of the universe, why we're here, how good and
    evil co-exist and why, everyday miracles that do happen, prayers answered
    and people posting about it on social media (like Facebook) - attesting to
    the power of prayer, and so on and so forth.

    I'm not putting down atheists, so please don't read into this as a call to
    reply in anger or defense. What I am attempting to accomplish here is to
    prevent the soul-stealing actions of parents to their own children when
    they themselves cannot definitely answer all questions to completely
    disprove the existence of God. And my hope is that this reaches at least
    one parent who may be on the fence to realize that perhaps s/he needs to
    take a second look at whether or not living a life without faith in a
    higher power is really the best path for their own child's benefit.

    No preaching or biblical references necessary here. I'm simply reaching out
    to those who may be considering this concept of parents teaching their
    children to counter the belief of the existence of God to be a great idea
    (or those who already have). I want those parents to really take a moment
    and search deep down inside for that small voice pleading with you to not
    steal the soul of your own sons or daughters - and maybe, just maybe - the
    memories of the miracle of the birth of your children will help you to
    realize what life is all about, why we are here, and our roles as parents
    to spiritually guard our children - even if it means that someday atheism
    for the parent is questioned and replaced with faith in a loving God
    *because* of your children.

  • #22

    Eric (Monday, 27 August 2012 11:34)

    @Sadddened.

    Seriously? You find it disturbing that people who do not believe in talking
    donkeys and snakes, who teach their children that the earth is NOT 6000
    years old and there is no magic man in the sky is disturbing? I also really
    love the roles of mother and father you talk about in the bible is your
    favorite I Timothy 2:11-14 "A woman should learn in quietness and full
    submission. I don’t permit a woman to teach or to have authority over a
    man; she must be silent. For Adam was formed first, then Eve. And Adam was
    not the one deceived; it was the woman who was deceived and became a
    sinner”

    Yes you are right your book of fairy tales does tell men they have
    authority over women, but atheists simply do not want garbage like that
    taught to children. And Im just wondering what you think cannot be answered
    by science? I think we have it all figured out now, there really isnt much
    left you know.

    To be clear atheism is not a religion in the same way non-belief in
    unicorns doeant mean I actually think there may be unicorns but cannot
    prove it. You define atheist in the only way you know how because you
    believe in a imaginary friend, you think we just don't believe in it, but
    you cannot define atheism like that!

    Now I am pleading with you, please teach your kids that there is no person
    watching them, there is no hell as punishment when they do not do what your
    god wants them to do, that they cannot be punished for thought crimes
    (though shallt not covet remember). When an atheist listens to your logic
    it is like being the only sobber guy in a room full of drunks who keep
    telling him to have a drink because it feels so good. If you want to drink
    the cool-aid go ahead, but if want my personal oppinion, teaching that crap
    to children is child abise and should be punished as so.

  • #23

    Carrie (Tuesday, 04 September 2012 04:29)

    My son is almost six and is now starting to ask questions about jesus and
    heaven... Unfortunately most of our family are catholic and have been
    talking to him about this. I'm just not sure how to answer his questions...

  • #24

    Lee (Thursday, 13 September 2012 12:12)

    The problem with the children are born atheists argument is that you are
    making an assumption for ALL people for ALL ages. You can't make that
    assumption and expect a logical person to agree since no one has asked ALL
    people for ALL ages if they believed in a god or the God only after someone
    taught them to believe. What if you are simply ignorant of the truth and
    wrong? Could that be remotely possible?

  • #25

    Lance Gregorchuk (Thursday, 13 September 2012 17:14)

    @Lee: How can you believe that a child sometime in history was born
    believing in a god or gods? Are you actually trying to say that a child was
    born with faith? Do you mean like a caveman believing in the sun god?
    Atheists are not ignorant and trust me we are not wrong on this one either!

  • #26

    K. (Saturday, 15 September 2012 03:04)

    My family recently found out that my husband and I (I am almost 29 and he
    near 30) are Athesits. We have a son that turns 4 in a few weeks. Just a
    few minutes ago, our son told us that my grandma told him that my
    grandfather "went to the sky and is now in heaven." My husband and I were
    both in a state of shock, as we were not quite ready for that kind of claim
    from our child.
    In addition to that, we honestly felt like our family would respect our
    views and not try to sprinkle a small child's mind with religious babble at
    such a young age. When my husband and I told our son that people do not go
    into the sky, he was quick to tell us that we were wrong because his
    grandma told him it was true.
    At this point, I'm not really sure what to say to him. He is a smart
    kid...should I just let it be at this point and speak to him later on in
    life? I am baffled at this point. Any advice from other Atheist or
    Athesit-Agnostic parents are welcomed.

  • #27

    Lee (Sunday, 16 September 2012 00:02)

    You are the one who made the argument and used it as a reason for your own
    beliefs. Belief in a Supreme Being, Creator or gods of some sort has been
    widespread through the ages. You want to label all of that belief in the
    "learned only" column. Yet you can't because you haven't the evidence. If
    you want super natural evidence of an untaught tribe teaching the Genesis
    account as well as God working in the life of an idol worshiper, you could
    look at the Samuel Morris Story: http://www.taylor.edu/about/heritage/
    samuel-morris/the-samuel-morris-story.shtml as well as more info on Prince
    Kaboo aka Samuel Morris at http://scripture-truth.homestead.com/
    samuelmorris.html

  • #28

    Lee (Sunday, 16 September 2012 00:12)

    Hi again Lance. Here is an article that disputes this site's claim that
    children are born atheists. It says there are cultures where children were
    not taught to believe in a god at all and yet many do. http://
    www.telegraph.co.uk/news/religion/3512686/
    Children-are-born-believers-in-God-academic-claims.html

  • #29

    Lance Gregorchuk (Sunday, 16 September 2012 18:16)

    @Lee: Seriously? That is probably one of the most crazy stories I have ever
    heard and I have heard a lot! Why don't you throw in a beanstalk and you
    might have a new religion, maybe you could become the high priest and tell
    people what to do and what to think, how to dress and what to eat, who to
    love and who to hate, and what is right and what is wrong! To argue againt
    someone who thinks that children are not born atheists for me is like
    arguing against someone who thinks children are all born speaking chinese.
    Lee, you are arguing the absurd and you are making yourself look like a
    really crazy religious person right now trying to promote some new crazy
    religion!

  • #30

    Josh (Wednesday, 26 September 2012 19:43)

    I was pleased to come across this website. My children, aged 7 and 4 are
    essentially being raised atheist. My wife and I both come from jewish
    parents though we both consider ourselves atheist. My wife considers
    herself both jewish and atheist. I struggle with that. It seems
    hypocritical to be both. At any rate, we are interested in providing the
    history and culture without the religion. But again, where do you draw the
    line between history and myth?

  • #31

    Ags (Monday, 01 October 2012 18:38)

    So far I have not read any stories here from people that have actually
    lived through the experience of being brought up as an atheist child with
    atheist parents. My siblings and I were raised by a very loving, caring yet
    staunchly atheist father. For anyone curious, here is my short story of
    that experience.

    I can tell you now, that being told by your father repeatedly at a young
    age that "there is no God" is psychologically damaging.

    I remember the exact moment this happened as a huge trauma. I asked what
    happens when people die, and they just pretty much said "Nothing, you just
    get buried in the ground and become part of the dirt, there is nothing
    beyond", and then when I started crying, terrified of what they had just
    told me "it's nothing to fear about, it's a natural part of life, everyone
    dies and that's it, there's no Heaven". This is my earliest memory as a
    child, and I cried and cried.

    I can tell you now from the experiences of me and my brothers, (and other
    religious young cousins my father tried to indoctrinate Atheism into), that
    this is traumatising for a child.

    Yes of course it's true that children are not born knowing there is a God,
    but that does no make them atheist. It is natural for human beings to
    question their existence and purpose on this Earth, it is natural to be
    inquisitive about spirituality and/or whether there is a higher power.

    By the fact that my parents told me repeatedly through childhood that
    "There is NO God" as if it's an actual fact, it was just as indoctrinating
    as parents forcing religion on their child. I grew up thinking that anyone
    with a religious belief was stupid, and that I was more intelligent (and
    superior) than them for knowing the real truth about religion.

    This has produced in me and my siblings a huge struggle in our spiritual
    identities way into adult life. I have a constant battle occurring in my
    head when it comes to spiritual beliefs. I actually really want to believe,
    a lot of my life points me towards leading a spiritual life (I am intensely
    curious about spiritual things), yet I hear this constant voice from my dad
    "There is no God, you are stupid if you believe in God" "Only people who
    are dumb and can't think for themselves believe in God, don't be
    ridiculous".

    You know what? It's like the choice to believe was taken away from me.

    Doesn't this sound a little bit similar to religious indoctrination?

    Anyways, all I have to say it this. You do NOT have the facts to disprove
    the existence of a higher power or spirituality.
    Please, if you have kids and don't want to bring them up with religion that
    perfectly fine, but please don't force atheism on them. Whatever you do,
    don't tell them that you know for a fact that there is no God.

    Let them decide for themselves in their own time. You can tell them what
    you believe, but also tell them that other people believe in different
    things, and that it's ok and they have a right to choose for themselves
    what they believe in. If they ask wether there's a Heaven, don't say and
    outright "NO". Tell them that you don't believe in one, but tell them that
    a lot of people do believe so, and that it's ok.

  • #32

    Lance (Monday, 01 October 2012 20:11)

    @AGS: Wow what a story! I was just wondering if you cried as hard when he
    told you there was no santa claus or easter bunny or tooth fairy? Telling
    children that there is no god is NOT at all psychologically damaging.
    Lieing to them that there is an after life is! Telling them that someone is
    watching you or judging you or reading your thoughts is like living in
    North Korea or a george Orwell book about animals on a farm. Your father
    told you the truth, good on him. I will tell you I personally have told my
    2 kids that there is no god we discuss atheism weekly and my kids read
    science books, have a telescope, do well in school and are not at all
    psychologically damaged. Yes when my son asked about santa last year ( he
    is 7 now) I had to tell him the truth, he didnt cry though and I asked him
    to not tell his sister who is only 5. The choice wasn't taken away from you
    in the same way that the choice in believing in unicorns wasn't. Science
    and facts is not religious indoctrination. Here is where your argument
    really comes apart at the seams though. You have reduced atheism is a just
    another belief, where some think there is a god and some do not. Atheism is
    not a belief, it is the lack thereof. There is no argument for the non
    belief in Lepracons or elves either, there is no other side of the story to
    the holocoust no matter what some people believe. There are facts, and
    trust me my friend there is no heaven, santa, easter bunny, Zeus or Horus,
    you don't come back to earth as a worm if your were bad, you dont get a
    planet when you die, there is no magic underwear which helps you decide
    between right and wrong, there is no hell, no devil, and no gods. I think
    your dad was a brave and intelligent man, you on the otherside, and I am
    sorry to say this and I mean it well, sound like you cried a lot as a kid.

  • #33

    Winter (Thursday, 04 October 2012 19:28)

    Love this site! My parnter and i were trying 2 wrap our heads around how we
    explain morals 2 our childern but this site really help

  • #34

    Fast-Eddie (Saturday, 13 October 2012 00:38)

    It's really comforting to know that i'm not a minority in being an atheist.
    I was born and raised Catholic, went to catecism on saturday mornings,
    church on Sunday when I was growing up. But it's funny how even at the age
    of 5, I can remember thinking about how christianity just didn't make sense
    especially since I was TOTALLY into dinosaurs as a kid! As a teen, it just
    got more and more confusing, nothing I learned in science class was
    applicable to the stuff they teach at church. I guess I always knew I was
    an atheist, but when I would question my faith, my parents werent too
    pleased, so I kept it to myself. Here I am now at 49 years old, with
    children of my own now, and finding this site really helps with advice I
    can help my kids with....BTW, my wife is a catholic so there is some
    conflicting beliefs (or the lack of, on my part)in my house, but I think
    she's slowly coming around. :)

  • #35

    eighthwonder (Friday, 19 October 2012 18:02)

    hi all can you some names for boys and girls which doesn't represent any
    religion

  • #36

    LeonaG (Tuesday, 23 October 2012 15:00)

    Lee - It sounds as though you in fact *were* indoctrinated with some of the
    God and Jesus fairy tales as a child and were distraught when your parent
    told you they weren't true.

    It's a better idea not to lie to your kids about anything. Don't
    indoctrinate them with lies about Santa Claus or the Tooth Fairy or any
    other imaginary cultural thing (the gods and customs will vary). Don't tell
    them that if they're bad, Jesus will be angry and after they die, they'll
    rot in hell, or he'll punish them now. It doesn't happen, and they'll
    quickly figure that out. Makes me wonder if that's why all the preacher's
    kids I ever met passed through such a horrendous rebellious stage (and some
    remained there, forever, as addicts or criminals).

    Not lying to them doesn't mean they need to learn the whole entire
    adult-appropriate truth. Temper the answer to make it age-appropriate,
    please.

    Because what's going to happen when you then try to tell your child,
    drinking and smoking are best avoided? etc.

    You. Won't. Be. Believed.

  • #37

    Olof (Thursday, 25 October 2012 00:32)

    Regarding the list of gods: you write Norwegian, though it would be more
    correct to write Norse or Nordic, as these gods were worshipped in all of
    the Nordic countries of Europe (Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Iceland, Faroe
    Islands). See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Norsemen


  • #38

    Alex (Thursday, 08 November 2012 00:37)

    I do with my kids what my parents did with my siblings and I (Dad is
    Protestant and Mom is Agnostic)... Don't talk about religion at all! My
    sister toyed with Christianity (turned Agnostic), I am Atheist, and my
    brother is Agnostic. My Dad now tries to get me to go to church now that I
    am old enough to understand on my own without being brainwashed as a small
    child. Although I think he is the crazy one, I politely decline. :o) My
    kids talk about God because they have heard about it but there is no
    telling them what is real and what isn't.. Don't be fooled! They have been
    brought up with strong morals!!! As have I. :o)

  • #39

    UK Smith (Saturday, 10 November 2012 18:46)

    Surely atheism can't be considered 'a lack of belief'? It's a BELIEF that
    God or gods do not exist. If it was a lack of belief you wouldn't be quite
    so vocal about it, because you wouldn't see any need to vocalise something
    that doesn't exist. I believe in the risen Christ, he is the only human who
    came back to life without human help, and that has never been disproved. I
    agree, it's faith, because I can't give you solid, physical proof.

    Similarly, a lack of belief in any form of spiritual existence blinkers
    your thinking. You have all decided that you believe spiritual form does
    not exist. Atheism is a BELIEF, it's a FAITH, because atheism claims far
    less evidence for its truth than God does; in fact atheism can claim NO
    evidence.

  • #40

    Lance Gregorchuk (Monday, 12 November 2012 19:31)

    @UK Smith: Atheism is non-belief, like the non-belief in unicorns, or elves
    or lepracons. Just because you think unicorns elves and gods exists does
    not put us on the same playing field. We vocalise our atheism because of
    the damage your belief does to mankind. Just to clarify things though, your
    magic man Jesus is not the only person in history who came back to life,
    many people have (clinically) died and then been resusitated, it happens
    every day, thanks to firemen and doctors and paramedics, but I don't think
    you should go around thinking they are some kind of massiah. We cannot
    disprove that you have a god, and on the same note, you cannot disprove my
    refridgerator cannot fly when I am sleeping alone in my house only when
    noone is looking. I dont have any physical proof it doesnt happen but if
    you dont beleive that it does does it put us on the same playing field of
    belief and non-belief because as you know you cannot prove it doesnt
    happen! If you want to make crazy claims you are the one who requires the
    evidence, not the person who doesnt believe in elves, gods or flying
    refridgerators, you need to prove the existance of an event or god, we
    don't. We can prove that the earth is older then 6000 years (which is
    documented in your book of fairy tales). We can prove that there was no
    Noah's flood, that the universe is billions of years old, that there was no
    Roman census which made Joseph an Marry go to Bethleham to give a virgin
    birth to a god. Yet do we as atheists really need to prove that there is
    God Horus, Mithra, Zues or Jesus? NO we don't...you need to prove there is
    one. Yet what we can do, Mr/Mrs UK Smith is prove that many things which
    your book of fairy tales says are true, simply are not, we do it everyday
    and we have the evidence to back it up. Now here is a little advice, the
    next time you come trolling to a web site preaching lepracons, unicorns,
    gods or elves... try to show up with some rational argument other then
    "Well... I just believe my refridgerator can fly"!

  • #41

    Nick (Tuesday, 18 December 2012 03:35)

    Love the site guys. This is a great article by a woman who is an atheist,
    discussing her extremely religious (comically so!) after. It's a good
    story. Funny and sad at the same time.

  • #42

    Nick (Tuesday, 18 December 2012 03:42)

    This is an article by a woman who's an atheist, raised by an extremely
    (almost comically so) father. It's sad and funny all at once. Give it a
    read!
    http://chaossection.com/2012/12/17/two-faced-jesus/

  • #43

    Sara (Monday, 24 December 2012 07:38)

    I'm so glad I came across this site! It's nice to hear so many voices from
    other like-minded atheist parents out there. Lance, I am really enjoying
    your comments. You are so spot-on with your retorts. I was raised Catholic,
    went to Catholic school, etc. I even married in the same church that I was
    raised in, although I was definitely questioning my faith at the time. That
    was ten years ago, and I have since embraced atheism and enjoy thinking
    logically and marveling at the beauty of nature and the universe. I have
    three kids, ages 2, 4, and 8. My eldest is very intelligent and is
    interested in Greek mythology, and I speak about religion openly with her.
    I see nothing wrong in telling my kids that there is no god, to encourage
    them to think scientifically and logically, yet to also be kind, respectful
    people. This evening, my four-year-old asked me who god is and I told him
    that god is make-believe for grown-ups. He thinks that's silly. Smart
    little man!

  • #44

    Adrian (Friday, 28 December 2012 23:27)

    Hello all, (I wrote a bit too much so I am splitting it into two posts). I
    have never posted on a site like this before.

    Just as a disclaimer, I am not a parent. I just enjoy reading different
    perspectives on theism and atheism. I myself am an atheist, and have always
    identified myself as such. I want to share with you guys how I grew up,
    just to offer another perspective to think about. It isn't that eventful,
    but it may interest you.

    I am 25. I was raised in a semi-troubled household (some abuse/lack of
    affection) so I have always been skeptical about pretty much everything.
    People's words, people's actions, people's intentions. You can never fully
    understand another person. Unfortunately for me I grew up not fully
    trusting other people, unless they gave me a real reason to trust them.

    I am very thankful for one part of my upbringing though, my mother's
    decisions. My mother had been raised catholic, and she is a fairly
    intelligent person. She always went to catholic schools growing up (she is
    60 now btw) and she always had these questions that nobody could answer.
    One thing that stood out to me is a story she told me about the day she
    learned Santa clause wasn't real. She had a fight at school with some girls
    who said he wasn't. She was in Middle School I believe, and she came home
    after this horrible day and told her parents about it. Her mom came clean
    and said that Santa wasn't real. My mom said she felt absolutely
    devastated. She thought how could my parents deceive me like this? How can
    I ever trust them? She said because of this moment, she decided to never
    lie to her kids about santa. Separetely, she said she found the actual
    establishment of catholicism corrupt, so she separated herself from the
    religion when she was older and maintains a sense of spiritualism. She does
    not believe in organized religion.

    Because of my mom's experiences growing up, she raised a household without
    mention of religion. Honestly, I don't think I ever talked with her about
    the subject until I was in college. There were some residual religious
    elements, for instance apparently she did baptize all of her kids when they
    were babies (she did it herself for me I know). Also, every year (and still
    to this day) we get presents from Santa. She continues the Santa tradition,
    but does not ever promote that Santa is real. It's just part of the
    holidays. I love getting my presents from Santa.

  • #45

    Adrian (Friday, 28 December 2012 23:28)

    So now I'm going to talk about myself. I never have believed in anything
    supernatural to my knowledge. My natural skepticism, logic, and general
    distrust in people (until proven), has led me to never believe something
    just because somebody says it is. It needs to either make perfect logical
    sense, or have evidence to back it up. I never believed in Santa even
    though I was never told Santa wasn't real. It just automically clicked with
    me as a kid. Something like, "OK, so storybook character flies around the
    world on a single night to give presents to kids for no apparent reason?
    Right, that seems possible..". I never believed in Easter Bunny. I always
    knew the adults hid the eggs. I always knew my mom was the tooth fairy. But
    I played along because it's just sort of a fun game. A little family play.
    I didn't even learn of the concept of a god as an actual belief system
    until elementary school at some point. I immediately dismissed it with the
    exact same logic that I came up with for every other story book character I
    had ever heard of.

    Once I learned the word "atheist" I immediately was like, "Oh, that's me."
    I remember telling all my friends in elementary school that I was atheist.
    Good thing at that point that none of them really cared. I had a period of
    time in middle school where I got really sad about religion. But not for
    the same whiny reasons that AGS above mentioned. But because I was so
    compassionate. I cried for my family and friends who lived their life
    dedicating themselves to a lie. I cried knowing that they would die
    believing in this big farce. It's such a waste of somebodies emotions. To
    love this god. To sacrifice anything for it. Gosh, it makes me sad still if
    I really think about it. I read of families and friends torn apart because
    of it. I've experienced broken relationships because of theism vs atheism
    also.

    The strange weird thing about my family is that I am the second youngest of
    7 brothers and sisters. Of these 8 kids, to my knowledge I am the only
    atheist. I think my little brother is agnostic, leaning towards atheism.
    All but one of my sisters go to church now. My older brother I think has
    some spiritual belief, but no actual religion. We all grew up with the same
    parents, but still some of us came out as religious. I've realized it is
    just human arrogance and natural human desire to want to understand
    everything, and to want to have eternal lives, and to want to have a
    "meaning of life". A few years back I mentioned to my dad (who is now 66) I
    didn't believe in god. He said something along the lines of "I knew I
    shouldn'tve let your momma raise you without taking you kids to church."
    They are divorced now, he was the abuser, she was the enabler. He has since
    asked me to go to church a few times (even though he never goes). I always
    gave an excuse and he eventually stopped mentioning it.

    That's a good summary of my story of how I've been a lifelong atheist. To
    put it simply, that (supernatural or theistic) stuff never seemed more
    plausible than any other fairy tail, so it was never a struggle or a
    revelation. I know I made this a bit too long as I tend to write too much.
    I hope it will provide another interesting point of view for parents
    thinking of how to handle their children with this matter.

    If I could give some advice (as unqualified as I am). It would be to teach
    your kids to value logic, evidence, rationalism, and skepticism. Teach them
    that everybody believes different things because humans want certain things
    to be true. Teach them that their own beliefs or non-beliefs should reflect
    how they themselves perceive the world. Teach them about the history of
    religions. Why theistic mythologies came about in the first place. If they
    understand why religion came about (lack of understand), why it spread
    (control over the population), and why it persists (ignorance, or clinging
    to false hopes/fantasies, or complete lack of logic/brainwashing) Then I
    think you kids will grow up just fine. My parents didn't specifically teach
    me these things. But I figured them out. I'm sure you can teach your kids
    these things in a loving way.

  • #46

    RanchEarth (Sunday, 06 January 2013 04:31)

    I am going to homeschool my atheist children because we live in such a
    radical christian area. Does anyone have a program they would suggest?

  • #47

    Naturalistic (Saturday, 12 January 2013 06:15)

    When my mother in laws FAVORITE dog died there was a lot of talk about
    death. My daughter asked what happens when you die. I told her that nobody
    knows. She told me (crying)that she didn't want me to die. I told her that
    I limit sugar and eat lots of vegetables so that I will live a long time. I
    also told her that sometimes people die young but it's very rare, hardly
    ever happens. This didn't help much. Next, I told her that if you spend
    your whole life worrying about death you will not enjoy your life, so try
    not to worry about it too much because once again nobody really knows what
    happens after that. She would occasionally bring it up and cry about it but
    she is a crier. Then It occurred to me to tell her what her dad (totally
    atheist) would always say to me about the subject

    . "The best you can Hope to be is good dirt"

    ...which I elaborated on to mean that the earth made you out of dirt gave
    you life and you have to give it back some day. Also at other times I would
    mention that you and me will turn into good dirt to grow and apple tree
    that will feed another little girl or boy. So ii love this song by Harry
    Nilsson called "Think about your troubles" part of song that always gets me
    happy teary...."and everybody knows that when a body decomposes its basic
    elements are given back to the ocean, andthe sea does what it outa and soon
    this salty water". Also described to my two girls 3&5yrs how we all take
    turns being alive, because otherwise we would run out of places to live
    (they have to learn a lot about taking turns at this age so this makes a
    lot of sense to them I've noticed).

    I feel like my religion is worshipping nature. She is beautiful and it
    makes sense to worship her because she keeps me alive, she is my mother,
    feeding me and clothing me. If we all believed that she was GOD then she
    would be treated fairly instead of everyone hoping for something better,
    later, in the afterlife. I don't understand everything about the earth and
    not everything can be explained by science but I believe that if I take
    care of it, it will take care of me. Its probably got a name and it's sort
    of based on aboriginal beliefs. I think aboriginal beliefs were born out of
    rituals that benefitted everyone and though I'm it native they make a lot
    if sense.

    I was raised Christian until my parents became disillusioned with the
    reformed church and started their own, but some of the reformed people,
    came over and started trying to shame and make rules. They gave up on
    church and thats how I realized that it is your parents belief that shapes
    you. They are still spiritual but even when we went to church they were
    very open. When I would ask why he would send eve away for eating an apple
    that he had put there in the first place,( what was his problem!! )and how
    did we know the Adam and eve story to be true, my mother would tell me that
    that's what faith was. After they gave up the church i started thinking
    about a god that would send you to hell for things that were out of your
    control and it didn't make sense. If he didn't love me for who I was then i
    didn't want to be in heaven.

  • #48

    Atheist Chick (Saturday, 19 January 2013 18:12)

    Yay for being atheist! Religion sucks!! I'm raising my kids to think
    logically and realistically and not believe in fairy tales!!! Wooooo

  • #49

    No (Monday, 28 January 2013 05:31)

    Okay. That picture with the Buddhist and the Hindu and the Businessman. No.
    Just no.

    No.

  • #50

    Adrian (Monday, 28 January 2013 21:41)

    Why No? I am not understanding your reaction, or your reason for your
    reaction. Please elaborate.

  • #51

    richard (Thursday, 07 February 2013 05:14)

    I have a beautiful, intelligent 7 year old daughter. I am divorced and have
    always been an Atheist. My x-wife insists on taking my daughter to church.
    The worst of it is that the Sunday school is so inaccurate it is
    ridiculous. They have taught that Jesus died and was buried then the next
    day they dug him up, I actually heard them telling this to the children...
    This week they told her that the stars are all dead people and they are in
    heaven. Now she is afraid of the stars. My Question is does any one know of
    an organization that can help me to undo what the “church” is doing to my
    daughter? If I was say Jewish and the x-wife was catholic my church would
    teach their version and help to balance the damage. But there is no church
    of Atheist to go to for help. Anyone have advice? THANKS FOR READING
    Richard


  • #52

    Tony (Friday, 08 February 2013 14:14)

    i cant believe such levels of hypocrisy exists in this world.

  • #53

    Megan (Tuesday, 12 February 2013 02:51)

    hi!! My husband and i are atheist. We never thought our 3 year old son
    would be dealing with religion issues this young. We live in Florida and we
    have tried very hard to find a daycare that doesn't claim to be christian
    based but weren't able to find one. so we found one our son liked and went
    with that. We thought it wouldn't hurt since we have a private school lined
    up for him already which he will start at 5. But 3 weeks ago the director
    of the daycare pulled me a sided and asked why my son knew nothing of
    prayers at meals, christian songs like "Jesus loves me" and why he looked
    so puzzled when they asked him who god/Jesus was. i simple told him we we
    letting him figure out things for him self. Today when i picked him up he
    was singing jesus loves me, had a picture he painted of a cross, and at
    dinner just now said "no mommy we have to pray first" i said what? he
    replied "good boys pray or god will get mad and do bad things to you".....
    guess im going to have to pull him out unless you guys have any other
    ideas? also do you think he will soon forget the ideas they have planted/
    brainwashed into him? thanks!! ps. he is only 3 but he is very smart. talks
    in perfect sentences and can hold a conservation better than most 5 y/o's.
    this is why im soo worried. I dont want hm think there is a man in the sky
    who will hurt him if he is "bad" as he put it. i also hate when people tell
    there kids there bad instead of saying "mis behaving"

  • #54

    Hector (Saturday, 16 February 2013 20:07)

    Why do we call our self's atheists, why can we not just call them
    brainwashed.

  • #55

    C B (Sunday, 17 February 2013 01:22)

    I would really love it if you could issue both "Born Again Atheist" and
    "Great Without Religion" as e-books for the Nook through Barnes and Noble,
    I really would rather read books on my Nook. Hope you consider it!

  • #56

    John (Monday, 18 February 2013 01:32)

    @Megan
    I feel your pain. I'm having similar issues with my five year old son. He's
    keeps bringing up jesus and souls and heaven. Turns out his teacher at
    spanish-language school has been feeding him this stuff. I've told him not
    everyone believes in God; myself being one of them. I've spent time with
    him on the internet researching the beliefs of other cultures (he loves
    Thor because of the Avengers) hoping to reinforce upon him that the
    Christian God is but one of many superstitions. Research indicates that
    acceptance of religious beliefs has a significant genetic component. I was
    raised in a Catholic family but was an atheist by the time I was a young
    teen. Whether it is preschool or some other venue, your son will be
    proselytized ... it is the nature of our society. Best advice I can give is
    to continually reinforce that your son understands the difference between
    fact and fiction, and hope his genetics predisposes him to be a critical
    thinker.

  • #57

    Maureen (Sunday, 24 February 2013 02:46)

    Where can I get a copy of that children's book? Amazon.com didn't carry it.

  • #58

    sammi (Wednesday, 27 February 2013 18:57)

    I believe in jesus christ n no ur wrong ur kids" should be able to grow n
    have a choice in believe you are guiltyof sin in jesus eye for knowing the
    truth and still continue not to belive repent" he'll forgive you dont
    delete an innocent soul for materialize things far as dwelling on the earth
    eternal life snds better to me more than anything faith believe is all you
    need" things do get old and man gets old and die off" so when your kids or
    if they have come to you with the powetful truth how do you go frm their
    when they find the truth and feel it and belive it will you still deny him?
    Or will stay attach to this world that one day will be faced by jesus and
    his father the dead will be called by hus voice!!!the non believers will
    remain asleep appearing ti be dead already as you dont follow the faith of
    the good lord... God blesd you your family and the broken souls in jesus
    name Amen

  • #59

    ADMIN (Thursday, 28 February 2013 08:10)

    @Sammi: Please keep your hate mail and hell wishing to the section "Hate
    Mail and Hell Wishing". I will leave your comment up for a few days though
    because it is too funny. I am guessing you didn't really pay that much
    attention in school especially in the grammer and spelling parts, but then
    again who has to with the afterlife and everything right? Sammi, here is a
    tip... if you want to hang out with intellectuals, learn how to formulate a
    full sentence and spell. Maybe your church offers courses for 8 year olds
    which is about the level you are at right now, not only in your
    understanding of religion, but also in your ability to formulate an
    argument. I really hope you don't have kids, I mean for their sake, it must
    be so embarrassing to have you as a parent. Ramen! (The noodles, I didn't
    make a spelling mistake)

  • #60

    Sean (Monday, 04 March 2013 03:15)

    I am one of the children who hasn't been brainwashed. At school, the other
    students will not shut up about my atheism. Only a few kids accept my
    atheism. They've made it their mission to restore my former Christian
    beliefs. No matter how much the creationists complain, they can't restore
    it. I'm one of the gifted children, and I'm smarter than most of the people
    in school. I don't take people who aren't as smart as me seriously. I wish
    the Christians would just shut their mouths and leave me alone.

  • #61

    Elizabeth McGinnigle (Friday, 08 March 2013 08:46)

    Help! My uber- religious ex is going for full custody(again) because I've
    told my 6 year that in the event something terrible happen, praying will
    not save you. You need to have a plan, if a bad guy approaches you, run! If
    he gets you,kick him in the nuts and scream FIRE! If you are close to his
    face, press your tiny thumbs as far into his eyeballs as hard as you can.
    Bite. I don't want my son to grow up believing that he may burn in hell for
    any reason. Can anyone suggest a lawyer in the southeast that has some
    experience in this?

  • #62

    Azalea (Friday, 15 March 2013 05:26)

    Im so glad I found this site,reading your posts reassured me that I haven´t
    been making any "major" mistakes when it comes to my son and religion :)

    As a kid,I much like @Adrian... grew up not really believing all the
    supernatural stories being told to me,but I played along. My mom always
    read for me b4 bed and I loved books and stories.I had a very active brain
    and asked a lot of questions. Before bed my mom also said a prayer with me
    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lord's_Prayer as a kid I remember it sounding
    like Chinese (Forgive us our debts? deliver us from evil?.... Whaaaat?) My
    grandmother always said that prayer with her when she was little so I guess
    it stuck, other than that same prayer every night there wasnt really any
    religious pressure in the home,we never went 2 curch but my mom believes in
    some kind of higher power. She raised me well and taught me 2 be good 2
    people and respect the opinions of others,not to steal and all the other
    things responsible parents teach their children, she also taught me how 2
    be responsible and how to work hard,I love her with all my heart. But at a
    young age I had a million and one questions and few answers. My mom had me
    when she was 20 and never went 2 college, she worked and provided for us
    while my dad went 2 school 2 be a carpenter (that led 2 him working long
    hours).I guess she didn´t really feel like she had the right answers since
    she usually refrained from answering the tough ones,changed the subject or
    gave me an answer that left me with even more questions. It wasnt until I
    was old enough to do research on my own I finally felt like I understood.

    Today I am lucky enough to have a 7 year old son who is very much like me.
    He is a skeptical young man,constantly wondering and thinking. I never know
    what he´s gonna ask me.
    I tried to prepare myself as well as I could to be able to provide him with
    clear answers. I am an atheist, but I dont tell him what to believe or not
    2 believe. I simply educate him about everything he wants to know,helping
    his mind 2 be free but full of knowledge. We´ve been going to the library
    together since he started walking.
    He learned to read when he was 4 and he is fascinated by space,the earth
    and pretty much all living things and of course the dinosaurs.
    I think I´m doing a good job of teaching him how to be a good person,treat
    others the way he wants to be treated,form his own opinions, make choices
    for himself and to use logical thinking.I show him that I love him every
    day and that there is more 2 life than money and material things.


    :)

    -Facts are to the mind what food is to the body- EB



  • #63

    Adrian (Thursday, 21 March 2013 18:58)

    Good job Azalea!

  • #64

    Kristeen (Thursday, 09 May 2013 01:04)

    Hello all! I've read pretty much all these posts, save for the few
    religious ones that said we were sucking the souls out of our children, or
    something like that. And I love how in that post the sentence before that
    was "I'm not trying to make you angry!" Please... the soul you speak of is
    just our brain activity. And no, I'm not going to suck out my childs brain.
    Haha

    I was raised catholic, went to elementry school with the nuns. My parents
    never took me to church it was always my grandmother. I prayed at her house
    before bed and all that fun stuff. When I got older I stopped. I don't
    think there was a real turning point when I stopped believing. Because how
    can you stop something that never started?

    She was a very smart woman, and it saddens me that till the day she died
    she believed noahs arc happened. I actually asked her when I was 20 if she
    really believed it, and she said yes. I was shocked that this intelligent
    person could believe such a wild fairy tale.

    I have my own child now. Hes only a baby(6 mons) but already so curious
    about everything. I try not to say "no" to touching things unless its
    dangerous or dirty. He wants to know what it is. Why would I constrain that
    thurst for knowledge already? We read at least one book a day. Whatever he
    looks at or touches I say "what is that?" And then tell him.

    His father is a christian. Not a practicing one. His mom (my sons grandma)
    is practicing. She goes to church every Sunday, unless they're out at the
    cabin. I dont know what her world views are, but shes a nice lady and
    doesnt seem pushy. I'm going to get my son baptized just to keep the peace.
    It doesn't matter to me, just a silly tradition.

    I will raise him to be a free thinker. It already seems he is, and I will
    try my best to nurture that. He will know about all sorts of religions and
    myths, if hes interested. I won't push anything on him. But if my mother in
    law starts pressing upon him prayer or any other religios ritual I will
    have to intervene. Talking about what people do and actually doing what
    other people do are completely different things. Once he reaches an age
    where he can understand what prayer and religion actually are, he will be
    neutral.

  • #65

    Robby (Thursday, 09 May 2013 15:05)

    This site is so helpful to me even when I'm not even a parent (I'll be 8
    next week though, yay!!). My mum and dad and 3 grandparents are all
    Christians and I worry about my sister who is only 5 and is very accepting
    of what she is told. She doesn't like to read much and thinks the internet
    is for games and tv, all her friends are Christian too and so she really
    doesn't get to see the view of people who don't believe in Jesus etc. I'm
    not worried too much I think I still believed in God when I was about 5 and
    I grew out of it but I think because I like to learn things and question
    things it was easier. She doesn't right now but she likes when I tell her
    interesting things I read so I think I will do what Wes suggested to Haley
    and tell her about all different religions and mythologies and who believes
    or used to believe them. Then she will maybe understand there is so much
    she is not being told and get more curious. I know I am young to be
    'teaching' my sister but my family are all so Goddy they never learned
    about science or anything or anything else and they think they're better
    than everyone who isn't like them (Muslim, Jew, gay, stem-cell researchers,
    whatever else they get told is bad) and I don't want my sister to grow up
    to be as dumb and judgey as they are so I think I have a responsibility to
    make sure she knows not everyone is like them. Only good thing about
    religions is that it can make people happy but my mum and dad are too busy
    judjing everyone to enjoy it.
    I thought about trying to change my parents too since I was worried they
    would stop loving me or try to change me but I want to be a neuroscientist
    and that's another thing they think is evil so I will have to tell them
    eventually. I think I will wait until I leave home and go to uni and for
    now I will make a diary about all this so I can give it to them to read
    when I leave and they will maybe understand a bit better.
    Anyway, thank you for this site it is very helpful. :)
    Robby.

  • #66

    ADMIN (Thursday, 09 May 2013 16:09)

    Robby are you seriously 8???? I cannot believe that but will leave your
    comments up anyway.

  • #67

    Andy (Sunday, 19 May 2013 17:56)

    Love this site, I just wanted to say to Kristeen I did the same in having
    both my daughters christened to "keep the peace". It is something that I
    now really regret, because, as the priest said to me before hand ( and I
    should have listened...) this is something that you can't take back - they
    will always be christened. Your children can make the decision for
    themselves when they feel ready, and it should be their decision. I now
    find I'm on the back foot when discussing beliefs with my daughters, as (in
    my own mind) I've been a bit of a hypocrite.

  • #68

    Adrian (Wednesday, 22 May 2013 19:59)

    Robby, if you are 8, then please stay off drugs, and at least focus in
    school enough to get high Bs. If you do these things, you will be
    successful in life. Communication skills are probably the most important
    thing in the professional world, and you already got that down! So good
    luck, man! Oh, and also, don't get anybody pregnant! Wait till you have a
    good job for that (and should probably wait till marriage). :)

  • #69

    John (Wednesday, 22 May 2013 21:46)

    My parents raised me religiously up until the age of about 18... Now, I use
    free will and never even step foot inside a church (unless I'm on vacation
    and I want to admire some architecture). As a child I remember I would
    believe in "god" and pray often. However, as I became more interested in
    the sciences and more educated in general, I realized god can't exist. When
    so many religions are present, how do you even know YOURS is the right one?

    Honestly, most people simply believe what their parents told them, it's not
    as though they came to a conclusion about their faith. Hence, I don't want
    to explicitly tell my kids "there is no god" but rather show them both
    sides of the coin and let them eventually come to the right conclusion that
    he doesn't exist :)

    Honestly, I also want to prevent my child from WASTING TIME in church (like
    I did... two hours a week adds up a lot of time in one's life), and WASTING
    MONEY on church. If they want to donate to a food shelter or volunteer for
    the Red Cross, that's fine.. but don't waste money feeding the priests who
    spread the lies. It makes no sense to me.

    I honestly think a world without religious prejudice would be a better
    place. Religion needs to "go to hell". It may take a million years, but I
    hope it comes to an end one day.

  • #70

    wiserwoman (Monday, 27 May 2013 16:32)

    I certainly hope none of you allow yourselves, your children or relatives
    to be dressed nicely when within a casket. I can't see a reason for being
    all dressed up with nowhere to go. I think it takes people with very little
    depth of thought to believe there is no God. It's certainly the lazy man's
    way out to be an atheist. Sure, it's not easy to an aetheist in the world.
    God is always fighting you. Sorry about that. But it's even easier to not
    ponder life and the world around you deeply. I often think that God sent
    His son as visible proof on earth of His existence -- what else does He
    need to do?

  • #71

    ADMIN (Monday, 27 May 2013 20:58)

    @wiserwomen we will leave your comments up for only a few days and then
    take them down as hatemail and hellwishing should be left in the hate mail
    and hell wishing section of this website. I was just wondering what you
    were doing hanging around an atheist website anyway? How did you find us?
    You see, if you really didn't question your faith you would never have
    found us. And what else does your imaginary friend need to do to prove his
    existence? Well, just about bloody anything.... Still waiting... and
    nothing...

  • #72

    Todd F. (Friday, 31 May 2013 19:25)

    I pray that you repent, accept the mercy, grace, and atonement offered only
    in Christ, and begin to live lives for God.

    Hell is no place to spend eternity. It's a horrible separation from the
    fellowship and love of God.

    Please rethink your position before the Lord and seek His face.

  • #73

    ADMIN (Friday, 31 May 2013 19:53)

    Hey crazy Todd F. are you threatening us? Are you from the Christian Mafia?
    Either we do something you want or something bad will happen to us? Guess
    what that is extortion, and in most countries that is illegal and so should
    be your religion. How do you sleep at nights knowing your entire religious
    belief is based upon old mafia tricks? You are a very sick person, either
    we love your imaginary "god father" or something bad will happen to us,
    seriously how stupid do you think we are?

  • #74

    Jude (Sunday, 02 June 2013 09:55)

    Admin: Since you don't believe in God anyway, there's no need for you to
    feel threatened by what Todd F prayed.

  • #75

    Nitz (Friday, 07 June 2013 05:48)

    Someone please telLance to stop giving atheists a bad name, and also how to
    spell "leprechaun," which this idiotic, stupid Christian could spell in
    second grade.

  • #76

    Lance Gregorchuk (Friday, 07 June 2013 06:56)

    @Nitz. I am so sorry for spelling leprechaun wrong, there is no spell check
    here and I am a horrible speller (just ask my editor who makes fun of me
    for not spelling believe right). Just to make things clear though we didn't
    call you an idiot or stupid (or a christian) you came to those conclusions
    yourself, and wow, you could spell the word lepricon (oops) in the second
    grade... you must be really smart!

  • #77

    peter (Saturday, 22 June 2013 21:05)

    That is such a sad thought. They want out children to grow up GOD LESS!
    This is so terrible. I hope some day you realize the truth of the bible and
    the love God has for you.

  • #78

    Martine (Sunday, 23 June 2013 12:09)

    I was wondering what happened to the old site, sort of miss those guys,
    technology caught up with it I suppose.

  • #79

    Jaco (Sunday, 30 June 2013 18:37)

    @ peter.... lol, hey dude Wakeup!!! Your 4000 plus year old pagen
    fairytales, selected & codified in a collection of manuscripts by the Roman
    Empire in 4th Century ...... THAT IS THE "TRUTH" of the BIBLE!!!

  • #80

    Josh (Thursday, 18 July 2013 04:40)

    Are your children allowed to 'think critically' about atheism too? Can they
    challenge that? Or is it just theism? Just askin'.

  • #81

    leon st.rumph (Sunday, 21 July 2013 08:03)

    You people are all just a bunch of tucking asa holes

  • #82

    Rae (Sunday, 21 July 2013 19:30)

    My friend made a song about his parents scaring him with religion as a
    child. Check it out. It's really good. If the link doesn't work you can
    search on YouTube. It's called no heaven for the sinners. http://youtu.be/
    141xWS2_hN4. By jvince

  • #83

    ADMIN (Monday, 22 July 2013 17:46)

    @Rae, Thanks... Loved it! Posted it on our FB page

  • #84

    Pamela Harley (Wednesday, 24 July 2013 18:18)

    I need despirate help. I am an atheist (62 years old) raised by an atheist
    mother. All of my family is gone except two Baptist nieces. I live in
    Louisiana and iIam married to a Baptist man who excepts my "lack of belief
    ." (I know one atheist in this state.) All of my husband's family is
    Baptist and they would not accept our "living together", so we got married
    in the worst state in the world. Everything is community property and I
    cannot even ask his doctor's a question without my husband's release. The
    real estate people tricked me to sign as coborrower on our home loan and I
    emphasized, NO NO. The title people, at closing" said it was to protecting
    my marital right to the property,only. And that my signature SHOULD have
    had as wife only under the signature.They all lied!! I do not steal and I
    try not to lie. They are all cut throats, theives, and I am trapped again
    with realestate. I just went through a reloan trying to be good to my other
    (divorced) husband so he would have a home to live. I now have no patience
    and I am at my wits end. They all turn a deaf ear to my complaints,
    although only my husband knows I am an atheist. Sorry for the typos. I am
    exhausted, alone and cannot afford an attoney. TYVM for listening,Pam

  • #85

    Tricia (Saturday, 27 July 2013 06:57)

    I send my kid to preschool at a Unitarian church, they do not talk about
    god or Jesus in the classroom. I attended a service once (not at this
    particular church) and they really just preach about spirituality so I
    don't have to worry about brainwashing.
    I'm not sure if I'm an athiest even though I don't follow or practice any
    religion but I do think people can believe whatever they want. Who am I to
    say what is or what isn't I only know how I interpret the world.
    With this being said I will teach my children to be tolerant of others and
    their beliefs. When I explain the holidays to my almost 3 year old I tell
    her every reason (that I know of anyways) why people celebrate. For example
    Xmas: it's societies day of gift giving and being with family, it's the
    time santa vbrings presents, it's the time Jesus was born, it's the time
    that begins longer days after the longest night of the year, it's the end
    of haunnkah (which I know nothing more about), its the end of Ramadan
    (ditto)… I know there are more explanations but my point to her, and soon
    to my son, is there are many reasons behind holidays because of people,
    history and geographical locations. My goal is they grow to think for
    themselves and know there is re always many sides to everything and they
    should consider them all and it's OK if none seem right, it's OK to believe
    nothing. Or if they end up believing a certain way that's ok too. I won't
    be sad if one decides to be Christian I hope they won't be fanatics but
    still it's their decision. Life is about choices religion is one of them.
    Is all the details confusing to a kid, sure but what in life isn't
    confusing. You have to learn to weigh the choices and go with what is best
    for you. Anyways my in-laws are lefty Christians so she will be exposed so
    I don't want her to be swept away. They are really great people and are ok
    that we have agreed to not talk religion because I am simply not religious.
    I have grown to love them so when mother in law cried about baptism I was
    like WTF how does it make any damn difference. So we did it, it made them
    happy, the grandparents even happier and we got gifts of money to buy her
    toys. I didn't make any promises to god and made it clear to preacher
    (pastor?) that I was not religious and this was important to in laws. He
    was very cool and was like "if you ever change your mind", ha ha, he also
    baptized my son in the great grandparents house. BFD, no one can say they
    have never done anything just to make someone they love happy. It doesn't
    hurt me they are baptized. Despite all this I really hope they grow to
    believe as I do.… we live, we die, energy is recycled, live life to the
    fullest, explore who you are and the world, death is part of life it's sad
    but necessary. I have yet to explain death but on this there will be no
    giving of explanations just a simple "not here anymore" there are just too
    many varying beliefs it would take hours, ha.
    Hate is ugly, Judging others is ugly I've read a lot of ugly things in
    these comments. Organized religion is what it is there are good and bad
    followers / practitioners / advisors in all. Raise your kids to be
    accepting and no matter which "path" they choose they will be beautiful and
    nonjudgmental.

  • #86

    Mike Velazquez (Wednesday, 07 August 2013 14:12)

    Hi.
    I'm an atheist, my wife is an atheist. We were not married in a church and
    now we are raising our 2 children (4 and 1 respectively) as atheists.

    Since both of them are too young, we have not entered the religous world
    within our society, just a couple of events of our friends who most of them
    are catholics.

    We do respect their beliefs, as they do respect our non-beliefs.

    The real problem showed up recently with my mother in law, who is extremely
    religious. She knows we are not religious, however without consulting us,
    she has been talking to our 4 year old son about jesus and god. She used to
    help us babysitting both our kids on weekdays, but we had to ask her not to
    come to our house anymore.

    How do I explain the best possible way to my 4 year old that jesus and god
    do not exist, that we do not share those beliefs, when my mother in law
    stuffed his head with religious crap behind our backs.

    Since he's too young I' sure it will be easy and fast, but he's on that
    beautiful age where he questions everything and this kind of things are
    really hard to explain.

    Thanks in advance

    Mike V.

  • #87

    mudi (Sunday, 11 August 2013 15:14)

    As a father, a one 5 year old girl going to school in a predominantly
    Catholic area, I am constantly frustrated when she comes home and tells me
    about the things that they "learned" in school that day. Whoever said that
    "God is not allowed in our public schools' has not been evident in a school
    lately, and uses this line as a justification for their own political /
    religious agenda. Thank you for starting this site I will be visiting often
    I will be a grandfather to children in Christian schools. sure that you
    undergo a brainwashing, but atheists have a problem with the adaptation of
    the centuries old and the improvement of methods of religious
    indoctrination. I have a doc on www.daretoreason. .. suitable info for
    older children up to 11-12 the problems start younger than we need
    lullabies, fairy tales, ancient melodies and traditional formats for Babies
    & Kids gardens (they are just fiction) are set -. they all religious
    reference without plagiarizing of other religions, if necessary. There is
    no copyright.

  • #88

    NB (Friday, 23 August 2013 18:55)

    It's the start of the school year again, and already my 7 year old daughter
    is coming home telling me she's being preached to at school by her class
    mates. They are telling her such nonsense as "you are a bad person unless
    you believe in god"
    This has been going on since she started kindergarten!
    Now she's asking if she can believe in god.
    I avoid the question normally, because I figured she'd forget about it or
    her friends would just get bored with it.
    But it hasn't stopped at all. I even had to mention that she was being
    harassed in class and on the playground (I did witness it, so I know she is
    being honest) and the teacher took the time to explain that not everyone
    has to think the same.
    She is still getting harassed at school for this, and now doesn't want to
    go. She always looked forward to going and loved learning.
    It saddens me that these kids feel its their business to evangelize any non
    believer.
    Any advice on how to talk to my girl would be appreciated. :)

  • #89

    Lance Gregorchuk (Saturday, 24 August 2013 18:23)

    Sorry everyone for some late responces, I know the people at
    Atheistparents.org were hoping I would answer faster but I have been on a
    European book tour and doing some speaking and debating for the last few
    weeks, so between that and wine tasting... anyway... @NB @ Mudi @ Mike and
    @ any other parent who needs to deal with these questions from your kids:

    I am sorry but you need to educate your children on the insanity of
    religion and the bible! My children in grade school also faced some very
    serious confrontations about religion but they could answer questions
    better then the other kids could ask them, and they seriously caused doubt
    in the other kids minds and moreover, their belief systems. My son when
    asked by a fellow 7 year old “why don’t you believe in god?” he answered
    “for the same reason I don’t go hunting unicorns!” Now that is a seriously
    cool answer! If you push either of my children on the question of religion,
    (they are 6 and 8) and it does not matter if you are an adult, JW showing
    up at the door, fellow child, mormon, muslim, or any believer of the other
    8000 + religions today in the world they can answer the questions! Most
    atheists and non believers do not take the time to teach their children
    about religion and simply say “we don’t believe!” They simply think that is
    good enough for children to say that, but that will never will be enough!
    You cannot shield your children from religion you must help them... help
    them to understand! You wouldn’t accept someone teaching your children that
    2 + 2 is 5! You would do something about it, you would teach the opposite
    and not just say “that is not true” correct? Education is the answer... it
    always was, sometimes I need to ask myself “why do atheist seem to think
    that non-teaching is also teaching?” It isn’t.

    Ask any religous person; child, adult, uncle, aunt, grandmother, father, or
    priest, what was the immaculate conception? They will answer wrong, or in
    the priests’ case he will tell you some amazing story that even he will not
    believe (google it, you also probably got it wrong)! Ask anyone “who wrote
    the bible”? you will get Mathew, Mark, Luke and John right? “Who were they?
    ” You ask next! “Disciples????!!!!” Nope! Get answers to questions!

    Ask an adult what the Roman Soldier did to Jesus on the cross to prove he
    was dead. “Stabbed him with a spear” will be the answer “ and “blood flowed
    out...” (John 19:34) But blood cannot flow if your heart doesn’t beat, can
    it? Should we go to a grade 5 science class together? Questions require
    answers and not just the answer “that is bullshit!”



  • #90

    Lance Gregorchuk (Saturday, 24 August 2013 18:24)

    Teaching children is the answer to all of your questions! My son is smaller
    then all the other kids in his class and sometimes kids say things to him
    about his size and make fun of him. So I teach him what to say when someone
    says something to him about it ( some nice... some not so nice). Look,
    these religious parents are teaching their kids hourly, weekly, and daily
    about a magic man in the sky who can read your thoughts and send you to
    hell for non-belief (among other reasons) so why don’t you, we, teach (y)
    our children the perfect come-backs to kids questions? Do you know what
    “though shall not covet means? (as in thou shall not covet thei
    neighbours....” GOOGLE IT!!!!!!!! It is the most amazing comeback ever!!!!!
    That religious kid is going to HELL and he should know it as your child
    brings it up!!! And so are his parents( that is the best part “ honey I
    really like our neighbors new car”)!!!! But your child isn’t going to hell
    because (s)he doesn’t believe is such bullshit!

    Parents... I am not telling you to buy my book (although it is really
    good), I am telling you to buy lots of books, read Dan Barker’s book
    “Godless”! Read Dawkins, read Hitchens, read McGowan and McAfee, get
    yourself the arguments for the facts, your kids will thank you for it and
    beleive me education is the answer and it is your responsibility. Those
    christian, muslim, mormon, JW, hindu, etc kids arn’t going to play with
    your kids anyway, why not try and help them understand that Santa, elves,
    unicorns, gods and jesus, just are not true and that kids can be sometimes
    much smarter then parents.

    Yes my kids walk around sometimes with a smug smile on their face. Yes they
    enjoy reading books on evolution and science, and we enjoy as a family
    discussing reality and religion. My kids also know that if someone believes
    that the earth is 6000 years old, that snakes and donkey can talk, and that
    there is someone watching their every move and even if you kill 1,000,000
    people during your life, if you ask for forgiveness to some magic man
    before you die you will go to heaven but someone like Ghandi will not, is
    really... amazingly... FUCKED UP.

    Education is the answer.

    Lance

    PS. Sorry for the grammer and spelling mistakes, I must admit I have been
    drinking some amazing bordeaux!

  • #91

    Kelly (Saturday, 31 August 2013 02:21)

    It would be very useful if the site organizers could organize these posts
    into threads so that it isn't just and endless string of thoughts / stories
    but actually allowed for some discussion and archive of ideas.

    I was more or less raised atheist - though my parents approach was to
    expose me to a lot of religions, religious ideas and a ton of science and
    let me make my own decisions. That said I have strong, painful memories of
    other children telling me I was going to hell starting in 2nd grade and
    continuing through high school. I went through religious periods my parents
    tolerated, and even accommodated, and
    , like many atheists, I know FAR more about the bible, Christianity and
    religious doctrine than my husband who was raised in the Catholic Church,
    went to church every Sunday, confirmation, the whole bit...

    Anyway, I ended up here today because my 5 year old is suddenly talking a
    lot about God... This morning's question "mommy, did god come before or
    after the dinosaurs?" was cute... This evening hearing her say something
    about when she was "inside God" before she was born was far more
    upsetting...

    I'm looking for practical suggestions about how to talk to a 5 year old
    about these things? I don't want to tell her her friend is wrong, but I
    don't want another child who is being indoctrinated by her parents telling
    my child things that could make her feel badly about herself... Thoughts??


  • #92

    ADMIN (Monday, 02 September 2013 08:49)

    @Kelly, thanks for your input. If anyone wants to discuss atheists
    parenting topics please use our facebook page, feedback is immediate and we
    dont need to be the admin. As for your question I have to agree with Lance.
    Giving children the tools to discuss religion at any age is the right thing
    to do, most parents just say "we don't believe" and that is that, but kids
    need input, kids need the truth and they can handle the explanation, this
    isn't Santa we are talking about here, this is about gods. Education is the
    answer, it always was.

  • #93

    Janine (Tuesday, 10 September 2013 06:55)

    I work with lots of Christians in a major teaching hospital. We were
    exposed to Christianity at University when we learnt about the history of
    Nursing. Florence Nightingale was a well educated Christian and from a
    wealthy background who changed nursing into a profession. She had a huge
    influence on my life. All the doctors, nurses, physiotherapist and other
    health care professionals I work with in Cardiac Care have all studied
    science and we agree about the knowledge about the heart, however not all
    text-books contain the same information and some of it appears to
    contradict other findings. There is documented evidence for spiritual care.
    According to Chang & Johnson, "the essence of spirituality appears to be
    deeply integrated with how people derive and live out meaning in and of
    life" p. 35. "Swinton and Narayanasamy (2002) argue that spirituality is a
    universally experienced human phenomenon that is intensely subjective"
    (Chang & Johnson, 2008, 35). All doctors, nurses and health care
    professionals will acknowledge we don't know everything about the brain and
    mental health. We can't even prove evolution because we weren't there at
    the time. However, scientific evidence points us to believe what we do
    today until evidence shows us we were wrong. The way I practiced cardiac
    care nursing 10 years ago is different to today. According to Taylor
    (2002), "Religious beliefs may help the individual to construct a view of
    the world and thereby derive meaning for living their lives" (Chang &
    Johnson, 2008, 36). According to Chang and Johnson "spiritually is a human
    process of finding meaning to life and life experiences. This takes the
    individual beyond the objective biological determinants of life to the
    metaphysical..."Why is this happening to me?" cannot be answered by citing
    test results or biological measures of life. Other approaches are necessary
    " p.42. According to Chang and Johnson (2008) the humanist approach is to
    approach a person as a whole of body, mind and spirit. The scientific
    evidence is there for every nurse / parent to care for the biological,
    psychological, sociological and spiritual needs of a child. According to
    Taylor (2002), the process of Spirituality forms the integrative force
    behind nursing care. It involves supporting the individual in their
    struggle to traverse suffering, find meaning and hold hope" ( Chang &
    Johnson, 2008, 42). Farren et al (1995) describes a process of hope as not
    a denial of reality presented by suffering, but rather an experience. The
    four components to this process are: an experiential aspect of appreciating
    suffering as being a human process; a spiritual/transcendent process where
    hope and faith are one; a rational thought process giving hope a grounding
    in the reality of the experience; and a relational process that connects
    the person to others (Chang & Johnson, 2008, 40). I am a mother of 3 and as
    a parent we all ask ourselves what kind of child/children are we raising. I
    don't want to raise a child like one of my relatives who killed Jews in
    Germany, he had no belief in God or any of the Ten commandments and he had
    no problem with taking more than one life. I love reading history books and
    we can learn a lot from the past. I don't believe in Santa, Easter bunny,
    unicorns and witches but I do believe in a historical Jesus. C.S Lewis
    (1952) wrote "People often say about Jesus: "I'm ready to accept Jesus as a
    great moral teacher, but I don't accept his claim to be God"...You must
    make your choice. Either this man was and is the Son of God: or else a
    madman or something worse...But let us not come with any patronizing
    nonsense about His being a great human teacher. He has not left that open
    to us. He did not intend to" p.55-6. Many health professionals have no
    problem with believing in both science and Christianity as science doesn't
    prove nor disprove God. Science is more interested in the how and
    Christianity is more interested in the why and about human relationships.
    Why haven't I never had to teach my children to fight but I have definitely
    had to teach them to be kind, loving, caring towards each other, science
    has no interest in answering this question. I went to public schools and
    had a few good friends in my life commit suicide. I was always searching
    for a purpose to living otherwise I wouldn't be here today. Most of the
    comments I have read have been very negative towards Christians.
    Unfortunately, parents behaviour is modelled to their children and some
    comments would be viewed as being a bully. If spiritual care is to be
    administered with commitment and competence in the future it means that
    children today will need to learn spiritual knowledge and skills to care
    for their patients/clients into the future. Chang & Johnson, Chronic
    Illness & Disability, Elsevier, Sydney, 2008. C.S. Lewis, Mere
    Christianity, MacMilian,1952.,

  • #94

    Robin (Wednesday, 25 September 2013 19:35)

    My 2 yr old daughter goes to a Catholic kindergarten here in Germany and
    today she did the sign of the cross at home. It worries me.

  • #95

    angie (Tuesday, 08 October 2013 02:57)

    I enjoyed reading this. I am a teacher and an atheist in the south and
    everyone at my school is very religious even though it is a public school.
    I've had many occasions during a lesson when I ask a question and when I
    call on a student there answer is that god did it. I always ignore their
    comment and give the scientific reason such as what causes day and night.
    Indoctrination is a big problem in public school system. It seems to get
    worse every year and there is such an ever increasing lack of tolerance
    exhibited by Christians.

  • #96

    Dpgc (Thursday, 24 October 2013 10:32)

    What is good? Who is good?

  • #97

    Amanah Hanifah (Friday, 01 November 2013 13:15)

    Children are born on Al-Fitrah, and its not atheism. Leave a child with
    their own thoughts, and they will tell you about The Creator. May Allah
    punish these atheist parents in a way they will most hate - by guiding
    their children straight.

    Allahu Akbar.

    Come and find me on the day of judgement, I want to see the look on your
    face.

  • #98

    auto-ankauf-kiel (Friday, 01 November 2013 19:57)

    As a father, a one 5 year old girl going to school in a predominantly
    Catholic area, I am constantly frustrated when she comes home and tells me
    about the things that they "learned" in school that day. Whoever said that
    "God is not allowed in our public schools' has not been evident in a school
    lately, and uses this line as a justification for their own political /
    religious agenda. Thank you for starting this site I will be visiting often
    I will be a grandfather to children in Christian schools.

  • #99

    Sue (Sunday, 10 November 2013 06:30)

    I do not think so it is good to spend life downing God. Of course there are
    many things called gods on this earth but only one is a real true God. The
    rest are just idols crafted by people; and anything can become a god even
    power or money which is against the true God. We cannot chunk the God of
    heaven among the handcrafted gods or the gods of the greeks or all the
    other 1000's of gods on other lands on this earth. Jesus did came and He
    made a promise He will come again. What will you do when He comes? You
    wouldn't know where to hide for there is nowhere to hide. Even now in our
    time, on this earth there is nowhere to run. If you are afraid of tsunami
    you would want to live on top of the mountain but there is earth quake or
    landslides or volcanoes everywhere...you would want to use your scientific
    skills to overcome it but can your inventions withstand it forever?

  • #100

    Lance Gregorchuk (Sunday, 10 November 2013 10:22)

    @Sue: How are you certain that Horus was not the only one and true god? And
    sorry there is no proof that Jesus even existed let alone was sent down
    from heaven. Think about it though; your omnipotent god chose to impregnate
    a teenage girl, so he could give birth to himself so he could have himself
    killed in order to save us from a hell he created and then decides to
    communicate his master plan through anonymous authors hundreds of years
    after the fact and have it implimented by bunch of child rapists,
    pedophiles, and people who could decifer his message better then you, only
    to have the reward of praising his name all day long saying how great he
    is. Seriously if you actually read the bible and didnt let "others"
    interpret it for you, you would be an atheist too.

    And Sue like I tell my children, you cant be afraid of something which isnt
    true, like monsters under the bed, or your boogy-man, and hell. You should
    really stop threatening people though with your mafia like church tactics,
    they dont work on atheists so maybe you should try them out on the Native
    Americans and other indiginous peoples around the world...oh wait you
    did...how many of them did you kill with your word of god? I bet you would
    have on the front lines "whippin dem hethens into shape for GAWD and
    CHEEEZUZ" huh? This is why I personally stand up daily to people like you
    and your ignorance and threats.

  • #101

    James Steele (Saturday, 23 November 2013 08:24)

    Alot of smugness here- I love how people who don't know how to use an
    apostrophe try to claim the mantle on reasoning skills. Belief in God IS
    reasonable or else it would not be worth doing. See Below. . .

    The existence of God can be proved in five ways:

    The first and more manifest way is the argument from motion. It is certain,
    and evident to our senses, that in the world some things are in motion. Now
    whatever is in motion is put in motion by another, for nothing can be in
    motion except it is in potentiality to that towards which it is in motion;
    whereas a thing moves inasmuch as it is in act. For motion is nothing else
    than the reduction of something from potentiality to actuality. But nothing
    can be reduced from potentiality to actuality, except by something in a
    state of actuality. Thus that which is actually hot, as fire, makes wood,
    which is potentially hot, to be actually hot, and thereby moves and changes
    it. Now it is not possible that the same thing should be at once in
    actuality and potentiality in the same respect, but only in different
    respects. For what is actually hot cannot simultaneously be potentially
    hot; but it is simultaneously potentially cold. It is therefore impossible
    that in the same respect and in the same way a thing should be both mover
    and moved, i.e. that it should move itself. Therefore, whatever is in
    motion must be put in motion by another. If that by which it is put in
    motion be itself put in motion, then this also must needs be put in motion
    by another, and that by another again. But this cannot go on to infinity,
    because then there would be no first mover, and, consequently, no other
    mover; seeing that subsequent movers move only inasmuch as they are put in
    motion by the first mover; as the staff moves only because it is put in
    motion by the hand. Therefore it is necessary to arrive at a first mover,
    put in motion by no other; and this everyone understands to be God.

    http://web.mnstate.edu/gracyk/courses/web%20publishing/aquinasFiveWays.htm

  • #102

    ADMIN (Saturday, 23 November 2013 16:26)

    @James: Thank you for your insight and your corrections on our grammar.
    Just a couple of points before I let go on your argument that there is a
    god; first A lot is 2 words not one and although I may forget to use an
    apostrophe here and there because I type so fast, and unfortunately this
    forum doesnt (did it again sorry) offer spell check.
    The argument of motion is one we have heard many times before, in fact I am
    certain you know that you yourself didn’t (hey look I did it) invent this
    argument and I did notice you didn’t give credit where credit is due as to
    where the theory comes from, Namely Thomas Aquinas in “Quinque viae” in the
    13th century and an argument which Hume and Kant took care of in the 18th
    century on a philosophical level and today, one which has been covered from
    every scientist of repute today including Hawkins in the God Delusion which
    we atheists have all read. The Teleological and Ontological arguments along
    with Aquinas` (did I use it there right?) assume that there must be a god,
    some “thing” which started the whole process, because nothing else is
    possible in YOUR mind. Now Hawkins and Almond are much better at explaining
    the “why” then I am because they are actual scientists who have more than
    just Wikipedia at their disposal. Yet here is my personal answer, and yes,
    it is much more smug:
    “Whatever is put in motion must be put in motion by another” is what you
    said, well then I guess your god was put in motion by another, maybe his
    dad? A god’s god let’s say? Zeus? Horus? Or wait…maybe mankind. You see,
    your argument assumes now that your god is equivalent to the Higgs-Boson
    particle (which has been proven unlike your god), or maybe you wish now
    that your god goes one step beyond even HB? For me, if you want to use this
    argument, this is fine, because then you accept that there was a big bang,
    there was no Garden of Eden, no Adam and Eve, no 6 day creation where your
    all powerful god needed to rest on the 7th day (that one always makes me
    laugh, I guess he was just pooped huh?) The dinosaurs were real, the earth
    is not 6000 years old, and you need to throw out the bible and at least
    half which was written in it by saying “science is right, there was a big
    bang, my god made it happen, and the Old Testament is wrong”!
    Your religion is built upon your bible and if there was a big bang which
    occurred billions of years ago the bible is full of shit… chose your
    poison, you do not get to say the bible is true and so is evolution, you do
    not get to say the bible is true and so is the big bang, you simply do not
    get to say the bible is true at all, it is a lie and always was, you have
    reduced your god to nothing more than the HB particle( which won a Nobel
    prize so it is a much bigger deal then your god). Over the last 2000 years
    science has done what you have just done; your god went from the guy who
    makes thunder and earthquakes, plagues, cancer and tsunamis, to the guy who
    started the big bang. Seriously, is this your argument now? We refer to
    this as Reducto absurdum, what is next you god made the Higgy-Bosom
    Particle? Oh wait I guess that is the next step for you, is it not?

    LG

  • #103

    Jubby (Sunday, 24 November 2013 18:28)

    It's true. Atheism is a religion. We have no proof God does not exist. We
    choose to believe this. My neighbors who are agnostic/atheist, raised
    children who sensed guilt and sensed a need for forgiveness. Where does
    guilt come from? Church alone? Programming?

    Why is it we condemn the presence of guilt in some, but condemn the lack of
    guilt in others, such as rapists/murderers/Hilters?

    I think atheism is the new religion our public schools is teaching. Do you
    want a godless child? Just sent them to public school, K-12 and college.

  • #104

    Lance Gregorchuk (Tuesday, 26 November 2013)

    And there goes the god argument. If you have no proof then you could be
    just as well arguing the case for unicorns. My children understand guilt
    and forgiveness, in fact very much so, or do you believe that only
    Christians have the corner on this market?
    Quick point to your rapists/murderer/ Hitler comment though, first Hitler
    was a Christian and the fact is according to your bible, had he asked for
    forgiveness from some god and accepted this god into his heart, the minute
    before he died, along with the rapist and Murderer, they would be allowed
    into your heaven, but me and my kids will not, (well the Pope thinks we
    might, but that contradicts the scripture doesn’t it …but he is infallible
    is he not? I’m getting confused now) That is pretty messed up don’t you
    think? This is what a Christian must accept, this is what a Christian must
    glorify, this thinking is really sick!!!
    And yes I want, and have, godless children, who are not afraid of your
    death threats of eternal punishment, who understand science, who respect
    all other human beings, don’t go around threatening people with torture
    like you do, and certainly do not wish it upon others, like Christians and
    Muslims do daily. Yet above all, my children help their fellow man not
    because there is some kind of point system being judged by a ghost, a god,
    and his god child, but because it is the right thing to do. Not teaching
    kids the truth is child abuse, there is a big difference between belief and
    knowledge, and you have wasted your entire life believing this crap, and
    your only argument is “we have no proof”, and this is what you want your
    children to believe?

    LG

  • #105

    Autoankauf (Thursday, 05 December 2013 16:39)

    Robby, if you are 8, then please stay off drugs, and at least focus in
    school enough to get high Bs. If you do these things, you will be
    successful in life. Communication skills are probably the most important

  • #106

    Laura Connell (Friday, 27 December 2013 06:39)

    If God wants your child, He will call her/him out. However, having atheist
    parents is a huge barrier to that. As a child who knew God was real in
    spite of my parents claims to the contrary I can attest to the fact that we
    are born with need for God.

    At age 5, I attended a local church through a bus ministry and when my
    parents put a stop to that it was devastating. I would call being raised by
    atheist parents abuse because I wanted God and kept being lied to about His
    existence. I ended up drinking to try and fill this God-shaped vacuum in my
    soul and when I finally hit rock bottom and sought recovery from alcohol
    addiction, the Lord healed me.

    I have been sober over three years and been transformed by the grace of
    God. My atheist parents ridicule and abuse me still because of my
    Christianity which they only know about through relatives and checking my
    social media. I don't talk to them about my faith although I do pray for
    them when I am alone. They won't stop bringing it up and talking about
    their atheism though - like a Bible thumper without the Bible.

    The point is: if God is going to call out your child to be saved He will
    but atheist parents just make it harder so the child will get into
    adulthood without God and have to be brought to their knees before finally
    accepting the Lord. Teaching atheism is abuse and I am still recovering
    from it.

  • #107

    Lance (Friday, 27 December 2013 11:31)

    @Laura: Let me get this straight, at age 5 you went to church on your own
    and were devastated when your parents stopped it, so you started drinking
    and you think god healed you, and now your atheist parents ridicule you? If
    any of this is true, and I doubt most of it is, your parents were correct
    in stopping a 5 year old from going alone to church to be brainwashed by
    some modern day "snake oil" salesman. I also hope you are not actually
    hearing your god's voice in your head, if so, please go see a doctor. Yet
    on a serious note, alcoholism is a disease and affects christians, mormons,
    jews, atheists, buddhists, and scientologists equally, I am happy that you
    have stopped drinking, but there is no way your parents atheism drove you
    to drinking. As you know you were the person to blame, and you were the
    person in control of your life. I am not certain which AA group you go to,
    but I think they all say the same thing...you need to take control of your
    life, and you cannot blame other people for your alcoholism. If you want to
    say GAWD or CHEZUS got you off the booze or a flying elephant did, we are
    all just happy for you, and I am sure your parents are as well, but as long
    as you continue to blame other people for your problems, you are not a
    healthy person. In my personal opinion your GAWD has simply just replaced
    the booze and now you have something else to cling to and worship. Once you
    stop drinking the "coolaid", no matter what color, you become the only
    sober one in a room full of drunks. Laura, you're still addicted, you just
    picked a different drug.

  • #108

    Mason (Tuesday, 31 December 2013 13:38)

    Why can't I have parents like you ? I love mine but sheesh I told my dad I
    was athiest and he just said no your not and told my mom and she cried. I'm
    17 and became athiest when I was 12. cause I would stay up all night during
    summer break and think till 6 in the morning about existence and
    consciousness and the universe cause I was amazed by it . and somehow I
    started questioning my religion which made me think I was going to hell. so
    I read the bible all the way through thinking it would keep me believing
    but ended up helping me realize how absurd and crazy Christianity and
    religion is. I just feel misunderstood everyone looks at me like I'm an
    idiot

  • #109

    Lance Gregorchuk (Saturday, 04 January 2014 14:05)

    @Mason. Sorry it took so long to answer. You are not crazy, and I must tell
    you, your situation was exactly the same as mine and your age, and my
    parents even today ( I still love them) still ask me if I am not affraid of
    hell, or why I chose to have my children live with original sin? For me it
    was like being the only sober guy at a party full of drunks... have you
    ever tried to reason with someone who is drunk? Good on you and if you are
    up for adoption or planning on touring europe anytime soon please come
    visit me.

  • #110

    Scott (Thursday, 16 January 2014 20:28)

    Those of you who argue there is no God because there is no proof are being
    hypocritical. How about reserving judgment UNTIL you have proof and if you
    don't obtain it then don't take a position on the matter? To assert
    otherwise is to believe in something without evidence or proof - thus
    making your opinion a belief which is exactly what you criticize.

    I'm going to lower myself to using Lance's cartoonesk straw-man
    comparisons: I believe that leprechauns and unicorns are not real but I
    don't have proof of their perpetual non-existence. I "believe" they don't
    exist, just as those of you looking down your noses at me "believe" that
    divine(s) don't exist.

    If you are truly as you represent yourselves then you would be
    "indifferent" and "reserve judgment" until such time as there is
    irrefutable evidence within the scope of your understanding one way or the
    other.

    As I made clear above, it's my opinion that you look down your noses at
    those of faith (notice though nobody challenged the Islamist above.... fear
    maybe?) but know too that many look down in "pity" upon you. You are not
    the intellectual elite, the enlightened, or the scientific minded... You
    are the lost, you are the weak of soul, and unless you are cured before
    your death you will know the misery that is to be separated from the
    divine.

    Do you have any doubt at all? Are you 100% sure there is no God? If I am
    right and you are wrong then you will suffer while I bask in glory; if you
    are right and I am wrong then we will both be at peace in oblivion. Do you
    really want to be on the wrong side of judgment? Use the logic you claim to
    possess so copiously - your bet is the bad bet.

    Sincerely,
    A Former Agnostic

  • #111

    Lance Gregorchuk (Friday, 17 January 2014 10:16)

    @Scott. You are using Pascal's Wager as an argument and we have heard it
    time and time again. Yet acording to your logic we, and you, should
    probably convert to Islam (and no I am not affraid of them) as their Hell
    is much worse and their Heaven much better! Anyone using this argument
    would be wise to pick the god who gave them the most for their worship and
    the had the hardest punishment for not worshiping them (Mormons get a
    planet when they die to rule over you know). Have you ever read what your
    book of magic says about heaven anyway? It really isnt all that nice of a
    place you know. Read word for word what is there, actually it seems to be
    more like a hell then a place you would want to spend eternity. I was just
    wondering though would you use this logic on an african child who has never
    heard of your god? Woud you use this argument on a child in India who's
    parents believe in a different god then you do? Would you use it on the
    Dalai Lama? Would you have forced this thinking on native americans or the
    inuit? Do you support people who would? Do you know why I am not
    indifferent to religion? Because of exactly that thinking of yours that you
    NEED to save people. I love that you think that you are better then us and
    then actually threaten me with misery. Did you know what you are doing
    mobsters would go to jail for it? What you are saying is that is I don't do
    one thing I will be punished for not doing that thing with pain and
    misery... is that right? Your god is nothing more then a North Korean like
    dictator and you... you worship this? Read your bible, you are worshiping a
    seriously sick and messed up god. The atheist is like the only sober guy at
    the party watching you dance, make jokes, flirt and sing karaoke, guess
    what? You can't dance, you're not funny, your pick up lines suck and you
    can't carry a tune. And yes I am 100% certain there is no god, your's or
    anyone elses. Thanks for dropping by.

    LG

  • #112

    Scott (Friday, 17 January 2014 15:55)

    @Lance.
    You’ve responded to only a few fragments of my post and have attempted to
    reframe my meaning/intent. I’ll take the liberty of correcting you:

    *I made no such argument that you “should probably convert to Islam.” As
    far as Pascal’s Wager goes, the BEST case scenario for you is oblivion, the
    BEST case scenario for me is Heaven, and the worst case scenario for both
    of us is a hell beyond imagining. Run circular arguments as long as you
    like, but you must certainly perceive enough to recognize this as obvious.
    Noted: You attempted to discredit all but the Islamist in your posts, my
    wager (Pascal reference) is that you are fine attacking a religion that
    preaches peace and forgiveness but cower at the idea of truly attacking a
    religion that preaches vengeance and slaughter.

    *Of course I wouldn’t use the exact same argument with other persons/
    peoples. As a novice author (and possible parent) you are probably aware
    that you frame your message based on the target audience. I have no NEED to
    save people, but I do take pleasure in helping those I can.

    *You judging God is the equivalent of an ant that lives under your front
    lawn passing judgment on you. He is an alien (think about it) beyond your
    scope and mine. God is a dictator? Obviously yes (just as you don’t let the
    insects in your yard vote on when or if the grass gets cut). God is
    equivalent of any human? Obviously no. This is another one of your straw
    man arguments, and I have returned the favor with my own. Readership: Which
    one is closer to the mark?

    *You compare yourself to the only sober guy at the party. I compare you to
    the impertinent child who says “I hate you,” holds their breath, and stomps
    their feet because they don’t approve of the parents rules/methods.

    *Another straw man argument about mobsters going to jail for it. I’m more
    like the person leaning out the window and telling you (the vandalistic
    child in the street) to stop what you are doing because it’s just a matter
    of time before you will have to face the police. I make no threats, and you
    know it. I’m sure I’m not the only one who has noticed you like to reframe
    other peoples arguments in your replies and then knock down your own
    fiction.

    *You “reframed” my statement about looking down in “pity” upon you to mean
    that I think I’m better than you. Let me reiterate for your sparse
    readership that I look down from a high place that is not my own, at those
    wallowing in the trenches leading to hell. I “pity” you, and I hope that
    all of you will find your way up, while at the same time understanding that
    many of you will stubbornly refuse the hand that is repeatedly offered. I
    pity you Lance… Sputter and rage with self-importance as you will, I “pity”
    you because you will probably only wake up once it’s too late.

    I have doubts that you will permit this final post on your web site the
    same way a cockroach avoids bright light. But then again, you may take this
    as a challenge and your ego will drive you to it anyway. If you do post it,
    I would say this to your sparse readership: “Reread Lance’s works and look
    for his reframing. Ask yourself why he does this, and if he didn’t do this
    would his responses stand up to what he challenges.”

    Sincerely,

    A Former Agnostic

  • #113

    Lance Gregorchuk (Thursday, 23 January 2014 19:30)

    Why wouldn’t we post this comment, although it does belong in the section
    “Hate Mail & Hell Wishing” I will answer anyway!
    First of all, as a theist you should learn and understand Pascal’s Wager
    before using it as an argument. I, we, and most people reading this are not
    afraid of monsters under the bed, the god Thor (whom the day Thursday is
    named after), or your hell, because they do not exist. For some reason you
    think it is OK to say that “I will have a punishment beyond belief” but
    still don’t think that it is not a threat? Oddly enough you think your
    religion preaches peace when threatening someone with pain and
    suffering…let me just get this straight, “peace” when we do what you say,
    worship the god you want us to worship, have sex with those who you say it
    is OK, dress the way you want us to dress, kill the people you want us to
    kill, and worship the way you want us to worship?
    I must admit though that you comparing me to your god and ants to people
    like you I find a little comical. Do you think you are an ant? As smart as
    an ant? Doing the work of your god and still not understanding it? You
    should move to North Korea as that is exactly what the “ants” in North
    Korea are taught, and preach to others, that is how they live and how they
    die. Comparing talking to ants about cutting the grass to me questioning
    you about how strange your god is, is the reason why I am free and you are
    a slave… I know you like being a slave because when you die you come back
    as bird and I as a worm…oh wait that is what the Buddhists believe, I keep
    getting confused about all the different gods today.
    You need faith, belief, and hope, I don’t. You need a god because you think
    you are broken, there is something in your life that you are not happy with
    and that is why you need prayer and worship, something about this life, the
    only one you have troubles you, you are not happy with it and hope for
    another, I on the other hand love this life, the only one I have and enjoy
    every minute living in it and not sacrificing anything to some fake and
    crazy god or to those who made him up. I have talked and debated hundreds
    of people like you, the difference between us is that when there is a
    problem or a solution, I don’t use a god to blame or to thank, when I need
    to explain something I don’t compare myself or my kids to ants or worms,
    when my kids want to understand something we look for real answers based
    upon evidence, deduction and facts, not hope and prayer and worship. Go
    back to North Korea, you seem to like it there.
    Next time please post in “Hate Mail & Hell Wishing”
    LG
    PS in order to find this website you must have searched us out under the
    words “Atheist Parents” in Google. This shows me you were searching for us,
    we didn’t search you out, we never sent you an email or any form of
    marketing. You were looking for us, I am sure all the readers find you a
    bit strange….

  • #114

    Believer (Tuesday, 28 January 2014 22:27)

    @admin & @james : The question of what put God into motion is a dull
    question to ask, because it is obvious. God is the Alpha and the Omega, and
    is and has always been and always will be. You say that things need to be
    put into motion, because that's what science tells you. So you athiests
    believe in the exact thing that negates your whole theory. If something had
    to put something else into motion, your theory of evolution and the Big
    Bang would be negated. That does not make our theory incorrect, however,
    because we know that God is a constant, and he starts whatever motions he
    wants to start. He doesn't need anything to start him into motion because
    he is not bound by any science that you may believe. Just thought I'd put
    that out there. Food for thought.

  • #115

    Lance Gregorchuk (Thursday, 30 January 2014 11:11)

    Wow how convenient, that what you don’t understand you must blame or thank
    god for! You are using the ontological “god of the gaps” argument, the only
    difference is that you don’t understand the argument which you are using
    (if you want to debate with the big boys you’ll need to do a little better
    than that). We DO understand the rotation of planets as well as Higgs-Bosom
    now, 40 years ago we didn’t, and that was when you people were screaming
    that plate tectonic theory was also wrong. Your god has went from this guy
    who can create hurricanes and make volcanos explode and over the last few
    hundred years been reduced to a few milliseconds before the big bang, do
    you see how the gap gets smaller and smaller. Just for fun though can you
    explain Neanderthal man for us?

  • #116

    Natkaps (Wednesday, 05 February 2014 04:30)

    Teaching kids about one religion is indoctrination. Teaching kids about all
    religion is inoculation.

  • #117

    Sean (Friday, 07 February 2014 15:10)

    I was raised in an Athiest family, and my father was super aggressive and
    liked drinking and yelling at me. He blamed it on his Spanish genes? My
    point is, where is love if we believe in ourselves and follow after our
    sinful nature? When I go out into the world, I see a cheating, lying,
    backstabbing society where people will doing anything to get to the top,
    you experience it firsthand in people's actions. I've never heard such long
    beeping car horns in any suburban area's except those of the rich. I've
    seen my incredibly 'smart', atheist, supposedly 1% uncle commit the most
    fatal mistake of his life by screwing his whole marriage and being disowned
    by my whole family. All in the name of selfish desires! I don't trust human
    nature, the greatest enemy is the self, that's why I had mental health
    problems (suicide feelings, existential anxiety) for 6-8 years, and
    couldn't work out how to fix it, either could my parents, cause my father
    had it as-well. Oh, and I found how to fix it! It came from believing in
    God, ironically. Actually, I haven't been to a psychologist for 3-4 years,
    and I'm happier now than I have ever felt in my whole life, seriously.
    That's what the bible warned us about... the Garden of Eden. Adam and Eve,
    their bliss turned nightmare after rebelling against God, remember that
    story? I always hear each of my parents say that they could just leave each
    other tomorrow... my grandparents are way more loyal to each other and they
    were all sent to church, funny huh! Have you read the news lately? China is
    embracing Christianity like nothing else, and they are all atheists, and
    have been for over 70-years? Every prime minister in my country has been a
    Christian, every single American president has been a Christian. Presidency
    is sworn with by with the Bible. Russia is embracing Christianity! What
    hope does humanity have for anything, if we trust in our own sinful nature,
    the one that can never not sin? The weak one that doesn't want to get out
    of bed in the morning? We are all idiots, that's why we need to correct our
    stupid nature. It's better to strive for the perfection of God than the
    imperfection of man. Not to just dismiss it completely. If you think
    Christianity or religion is stupid, then you've missed the point
    completely. I'd rather strive for being a morally right person in God's
    eyes then being a selfish, greed-driven, cheating, worldly-driven person -
    which is unsustainable anyway. Christianity has taught me how to love
    others, and to lift up the weakest and poorest. My heart goes out to them,
    and I'd rather help them then follow my own desires, cause I can't stop the
    thoughts in my head of jealousy, hatred and bitterness, but I can be aware
    of them, and choose to action the Godly ones and not the Satanic ones.
    Anyone else feel like that, or am I the only one who has these? A life of
    giving is better than receiving, and even though I can only do so much,
    people can ultimately only help themselves. And believing in God is the
    greatest gift I could ever give someone in that area. Answers do come, you
    just have to have the patience to wait! I believe in science, but I don't
    think it's any good as a life road-map. In-fact, it's absolutely useless,
    it doesn't even correlate with the topic. I hit a stump in the road in my
    early twenties, when I had concluded that there was nothing in the whole
    world that could make me happy. No money, no women, no high-grades in
    college, no pay-check... it was obvious! That's why so many actors and
    celebrities kill themselves, cause they have no meaning in life. But I
    found meaning in believing in God. I found absolute meaning, even if it
    wasn't true - that unhappiness and emptiness wouldn't go away unless i
    believed it. So i chose to believe in the scriptures, even if my father
    told me I was an idiot. I was happy, and he didn't look happy to me. Albert
    Einstein one said that you can believe as though nothing is a miracle or as
    though everything is a miracle. And I sure bet this didn't come from
    Athiestic thought! I like Athiests, but I think that they don't see the big
    picture, and I think what the Bible taught was highly beneficial to
    everyone, and that can't be lost. Chinese supposedly have the highest
    average IQ in the world. And they think that America's prosperity came from
    Christianity alone. What matters more in society than science is social
    harmony, and religion or the church is the core of that. Capitalism is
    effective, yet isn't so friendly. It would be allot worse if people didn't
    have the moral values that are repeated to us in church 52 weeks a year,
    in-out.

  • #118

    wellintonian sherkovich (Monday, 10 February 2014 09:14)

    Atheists lives are burdened by religion,They spend there lives arguing
    against someone they don't believe exists and at the end of life all there
    hopes will be invain as atheists achieve nothing from this world wide
    argument. If you be an atheist you live your life with a big risk ( not
    saved when Jesus comes) and no reward but if you are a Christian you get to
    live a moral life with a possibility of eternal life with no risk. Why
    would you not take that bet,Eternal life is the possibility,no risk is
    involved and your chance of winning is low but bear in mind no risk and
    large reward,If you are an Atheist there is a large risk if you lose and no
    reward if you win,because there is always a small possibility of there
    being a god you may chose what bet you want to take,Only a fool would not
    be a christen.

  • #119

    Lance Gregorchuk (Monday, 10 February 2014 09:29)

    @ Wellintonian: This argument is called “Pascal’s Wager” and we have heard
    it many times before. Yet according to your logic atheists, and christians,
    should chose the religion which has the best heaven and worst hell and if
    you read your bible you will certainly see that your heaven is not that
    great and your hell, well, not that bad when compared to the Muslims for
    example. The bible only has a few references to your heaven and there is a
    chapter in my book “Born Again Atheist” where I really get into it. Anyone
    reading this please read the bible’s description of heaven in Revelations
    4:8, 4:9 and of course 22:3. Go google it now please! Does that sound like
    a place you would want to spend eternity?

  • #120

    Deeks (Saturday, 22 February 2014 01:40)

    Hi I am a scary scary Christian and I am on on your site shock horror!
    Seriously you guys need to take a chill pill. So your kid becomes a
    Christian and dares to care, even worse dares to care about the ignorant,
    the arrogant, those who are so sure there is no God because a scientist
    somewhere tells them so. No doubt you read the stars and hope for a pill so
    you can live forever or you stoically stare your death in the face. You do
    not even know what's on the other side of the moon never mind the vastness
    of the universe.

  • #121

    Kay (Tuesday, 25 February 2014 05:52)

    Um...you guys all sound so worried that your children will end up believing
    in God. If you are so convinced that God doesn't exist then what what is
    there to be concerned about? What harm then is there in them wanting to
    believe in one since in your minds he techinically doesn't exist anyway? If
    there is no God then how can a non existent God do them any harm?
    Bizarre...

  • #122

    Lance Gregorchuk (Tuesday, 25 February 2014 12:15)

    @ Deeks and @ Kay
    First of all would you guys please keep your Christian “I’ll pray for you”
    comments in the section “Hate Mail & Hell Wishing” section, yet I will
    answer the both of you here:
    First, we scientists do know what is on the other side of the moon and
    guess what… no god… nothing we didn’t expect… no surprises! Actually, what
    is on the other side of the moon is predictably what scientists
    hypothesized about for years and guess what? We were right… nothing
    special, just the other side of the moon! As for the “does god do kids
    harm” argument, well yes, very much so! Imagine your kid believing in Santa
    Claus at 18, would you think that was a little weird? There is an awful lot
    of evidence he doesn’t exist, there are stories, songs, and even books
    written about him…but I guess as a parent you can’t be certain right?
    Teaching Santa “might be true” is for an atheist the same as teaching god
    might be. I guess as a Christian you must think it is better to bring them
    to a guy who wears a funny hat and doesn’t sleep with women for guidance
    about Santa, god, raping women, killing children, having slaves, and
    believing in magic is the right thing to do, but as an atheist, we think
    that is pretty weird. Look, having your kids think that the “jack in the
    bean stock” story is true, or that Jonah lived in side a big fish, or that
    we speak different languages because of your bible “Babble” story , that
    Adam and Eve were real people, that snakes and donkeys can talk, that
    people live to be 950 years old is very hard to take (sorry, just checked
    my facts and found out that the “jack and the bean stock” story turns out
    not to be in your holy book, my mistake)!
    LG

  • #123

    Davis (Saturday, 29 March 2014 23:57)

    Loved the read Lg well done . And what about the the wife of jesus (the
    other Mary)

  • #124

    mary theresa (Friday, 11 April 2014 23:12)

    Having been a believer as a Young person ,when I started to ask questions
    which were not well answered,and drifted away . By the time my son was
    going to nursery I was a fully fledged agnostic,and just before I became a
    believer again I was a determined atheist ,as I was in denial of my
    negative lifestyle. Unlike most here t was not the bible ,but ancient
    Indian astrology which brought me back to realise how ordered the world
    was,and how one could see good ,bad and ignorance ,indifference in the
    moment of birth.They believed as I do that the moment of birth shown in the
    stars reveals the level of evolution of a person(soul). After I had become
    quite expert I had an real experience of 'GOD' telling me to use this
    knowledge to show His existence,but Christians do not want to know
    ironically. That was 20 years ago . I knew that this expertise waas not
    making me happy,my heart wold not heal and I turned to the New Testament
    ,and have been a happy chrstian for a number of years and regret the
    atheism which i passed to my son. It is clear in ancient astronomy /
    astrology ,that those who belived in God over time were happy prosperous
    ,long lived ,creative,while those who did not were lost to the future
    .Atheism brought nazi germanyt ,soviet union,and is a very recent thing All
    it's major proponents like Marx,Freud and, their
    legacies are 'dead' as will be the atheistic version of Darwins work very
    soon .

  • #125

    Lance Gregorchuk (Sunday, 20 April 2014 16:31)

    @ Mary, thanks for sharing that really strange story with us, and trust me
    any atheist reading it finds it strange. Also, google your facts before
    writing them...Hitler was a Christian!

  • #126

    Dollie (Thursday, 01 May 2014 22:40)

    Something like this is very important to me, since I never did run across a
    family who was -raised- atheist. All the atheists I knew simply came to be
    on their own, myself included.

  • #127

    vikki (Monday, 07 July 2014 23:06)

    Brilliant to see such strong minded people here :) i was raised a christian
    and went to Sunday school till i was 5 although i can never remember
    actually believing the stuff i was told, from a young age ive been
    fascinated by ancient history,mythology and ancient cultures so obviously
    ive never actually believed in a god or gods as most of history contradicts
    the bible, there is clear evidence the earth is older than the mainstream
    scholars would have us teach our kids, my sons school has a mix of
    religions but predominantly its Christian and muslim, so those 2 religions
    are taught in religious education, i am very Lucky to have a strong minded
    son :) hes 9 years old and after discussing everything appropriately he
    decided he does not believe in god or any other deity but thinks Jesus was
    a famous man who did good things in the past, i refuse to fill my child's
    head with nonsense, my son sees the news, hes sees the destruction of war
    and famine caused by religion! I would not insult his intelligence by
    telling him to go join those forces as even though hes only nine even he
    thinks the idea of people fighting and killing each other over an imaginary
    floating god in the sky is absurd! Give your child the chance to understand
    both why people believe in god and why other people don't believe in god it
    gives them a clear choice but most kids will choose to believe because of
    the evidence, if you bring your child up brainwashed into believing that we
    have a moon that defends the earth....guess what? They are going to believe
    it! Give children a choice!!

  • #128

    Justin Johnson (Friday, 18 July 2014 15:44)

    God and religion is no different than any other absurdity that we steer our
    children from. If its fine to tell children there is no such thing as the
    boogeyman or ghosts, then its fine to say the same regarding god. Let's
    stop pretending religion belongs on some pedestal, exempt from reason.

  • #129

    Drake (Tuesday, 29 July 2014 04:49)

    My wife has been taking my 1 and 3 year old to a Lutheran bible camp during
    the day while I've been at work - I am completely besides myself. Not
    really sure what to do.

  • #130

    Jenn Pedersen (Tuesday, 29 July 2014 06:33)

    Has anyone come across any independent or charter atheist schools? I am not
    originally from the U.S. and find the schools aren't as secular as I would
    have anticipated. Anyone have any experience with this?

  • #131

    Ben (Friday, 29 August 2014 01:28)

    Great topic! Please visit www.freethinkingforall.com for insight into the
    lives of our family who is meeting these challenges head on.

    I should mention that we live in the Bible belt of the US and have been met
    with all kinds of aggression from the christian right. This is what drive
    us ro tje internet for guidance, and ultimately a therapeutic release.

    Hope to see you soon!

    Ben

  • #132

    Hannah (Friday, 12 September 2014 08:24)

    I'm a very intellectual child, always been open minded. I'm in 7th grade
    now I guess. I am the only atheist in my class, and I'm proud. When I was
    little, I believed in God. I only did because everyone I knew was a
    Christian. Although both my parents are atheists, they were raised by
    Christian parents, my grandparents. I'm an atheist now, and my grandmother
    is touchy to the subject. She took me to church once, I have no idea what
    was in the Bible. They play games, like you swear upon the Bible, kind of
    like truth or dare. It creeped me out a little, and I disagreed with
    everything they were teaching young and mindless children. I guess I didn't
    really think much of it then, but now that I look back on it, I can't
    believe myself. They had me memorize some kind of pledge, something like
    ''And he will guide me, my Holy Savior.'' Really creepy. I felt really
    uncomfortable.

  • #133

    Donna Bedford (Tuesday, 21 October 2014 10:38)

    God is real. Satan is real. Evil is real. Goodness is real. You have chosen
    evil. I'm sad for u, but even more sad for ur children as they were not
    given a chance to experience the love of God/Jesus because of their
    parents' rejection of someone greater than themselves. How can a person
    consider themselves educated, if they have have not been presented all
    sides (unbiased, of course) of an issue so that they may come to their own
    decisions about who or what they believe? God is real & loves everyone. You
    have rejected Him for whatever reason. Please give ur children an
    opportunity to know Him, so they might make their own choices.

  • #134

    Lance Gregorchuk (Tuesday, 21 October 2014 12:26)

    @ Donna. Do you have any proof that Satan is real or that your god is real?
    I have lots of proof they don't. Isn't funny though that your children are
    also atheists. They dont believe in the god Thor, after which the day
    Thursday is named, they do not believe in Aman Ra, The "Sun" god or "Moon"
    god (guess which days of the week are named after them). Or do you let your
    children feel the love from the Sun God, you can actually feel that love
    you know as he/she is a partical and a wave, that is amazing isnt it?Your
    god loves everyone....good one, well unless you are Canaanites and or the
    Perizzites, a North Korean or African kid who has never heard of him, or,
    well really about 70% of the population on earth. Your children only get
    one side of the story...trust me mine get both and there is no
    justification for rape or geonocide with my kids, your kids on the other
    hand think it is OK to kill lots of people simply because they don't
    believe in your god, how screwed up is that? Or wait, if your god asks you
    to sacrafice your child would you do it? Even if your god was real I would
    reject it because I don't think it is Ok to commit rape or geonocide under
    any circumstance, I guess that makes me more moral than your god is because
    your god and you, seem to think sometimes that is OK. I don't and either do
    my kids.

    LG

  • #135

    Jenna (Thursday, 30 October 2014 02:37)

    ...does it not seem strange to be having a discussion on whether or not
    Jesus is a real or imaginary friend on a website called
    athiestparents.org...one would think it would be more an open discussion
    amongst athiest parents about how to raise our children in the best way we
    can in a religiously dominated world....its like the need for places like
    this are only validated by the religious folks trying to talk their
    nonsense where it isn't welcome so please if you feel like you need to
    preach or somehow find athiests morally offensive one would hope that you
    could be a respectful adult and stay off of a website directed towards
    athiests...

  • #136

    ASN (Sunday, 09 November 2014 05:30)

    What is sad is this; athiests are teaching children that there is no hope.
    Their children are made to believe that all they get is this world. It
    doesn't matter if that child is born with a disease, or disability; its all
    they get. It doesn't matter if they were born into poverty or abuse; its
    all they get. What kind of life is that; one with no hope. There is hope;
    its Jesus. Just give him a try. I promise you, he will give you something
    to hope for; something much better than what this world has to offer. Don't
    let your children be depressed in thinking that this is all we get.

  • #137

    sheetal (Tuesday, 11 November 2014 01:40)

    when kids ask who is god that people believe in ...just tell them they mean
    HOPE

  • #138

    Amber Larson (Wednesday, 19 November 2014 01:05)

    I need advice on how to talk to my child. She came home from school today
    and told me that two girls decided they didn't want to be friends with her
    anymore because she "believed in science and not god". I don't know what to
    tell her or how to comfort her other than explaining that maybe she should
    look for nicer less judgemental friends... Please help

  • #139

    Taron Shmikeo (Thursday, 20 November 2014 02:53)

    "The Kalki Avatara is the fierce incarnation who vanquishes the class of
    atheists born in this Age of Kali"

    Srimad-Bhagavatam 6.8.19

    Please, go ahead. Condemn your children, for blood from all the wicked will
    flow thick and hot once this cursed age finally passes into oblivion and
    the incarnation either destroys or renews this world. It was said well over
    two thousand years ago, the last age in the cycle will be full of those
    with the hubris to deny the divine. They will be obsessed with material
    possessions and money. Their men will act like women, and their women will
    act like men. Their societies will be sexually degenerate and yet claim to
    be moral apexes. Their societies will be technologically unmatched and yet
    suicidal, fat, lazy, and rotting on the inside. Their societies, having
    broken down all orders and institutions, will be governed by those who
    claim to be of the people, and yet will be the most corrupt tyrants in
    history.

    All has been predicted, from the ancient Indians through to Mohamed. This
    world will burn. Parents will lead their children like lambs to the
    slaughter. But they will be on their knees before the end. So Communism and
    Fascism fell to pieces, so shall liberal democracy. Its adherents will pay
    a bloody price.

  • #140

    carl (Friday, 21 November 2014 00:41)

    @ lance , lance i have read your comments and have noticed that they carry
    shall we say a certain "theme " to them . to name a few , intolerance ,
    hatred , no respect for other peoples views ( whether right or wrong )
    .condescending attitude to said viewpoints , these are to name a few .. my
    point is you dont really set a good example of what a parent should be .or
    as the websites mission statement sets out,are you the right person to be
    writting on a how to parent website ?

  • #141

    Terry (Saturday, 22 November 2014 04:00)

    In the original statement I read, they made the comment that all children
    are atheists and they have to be taught. So where did the idea of a god
    originate, if it has to be taught?

  • #142

    Hyena (Monday, 08 December 2014 13:30)

    Thanks for the great read. I'm what I call a reformed Christian. Much like
    a reformed criminal.... I was religious up to about 15 then felt the
    pressure and hypocrisy of the church. So I left, for awhile I believed but
    not in organised religion. Then I read, actually read the bible and to be
    totally honest I couldn't stop laughing. That book is so poorly written and
    yet people take it as fact.

    Now I have my own children, 6 & 4. I don't brow beat them on my atheist
    views, but when a religious relative makes a comment I am sure to point out
    that different people believe different things. I won't be rude to my
    relatives and expect them to be civil and respect my athirst views much as
    I respect their right to have their views. However if challenged I usually
    question how they can worship a god who promotes rape by rewarding the
    rapist and punishing the victim. For the Christian god decrees that a
    rapist must marry his victim.

    I am yet to receive a reasonable answer to that question.

  • #143

    Lee (Monday, 09 February 2015 01:15)

    If you identify yourself with a group and try to promote your ideas, you
    are a religion. Period.

  • #144

    SANDRA Y (Monday, 09 February 2015 05:01)

    how sad how disturbing how wrong your disbelief , So prove to me that God
    exist - you prove to me he doesn't? prove to me that love exists , or that
    time passes or that hate is an emotion. What drive you so strong to
    disprove reality? PROVE TO ME THAT WE HAVE NO SOUL ( PERHAPS ATHEISTS
    DON'T) !
    AND THEN IN YOUR GREAT AND INTELLECTUAL ABILITIES PLEASE PLEASE TELL ME THE
    PURPOSE OF MAN? WHY ARE WE HERE? you have no right to teach your children a
    lie or take from the innocent - HOPE and morality Love and Choice. Your
    disbelief makes it so much easier to live a sinful life - you live in chaos
    which I understand as hell. Hell is defined in the Bible as "living without
    God " Just think, how sad, you're almost there!

  • #145

    Daniel White (Saturday, 14 February 2015 18:47)

    My wife was raised in a very religeon family, her father was a preacher in
    Indonesian church,
    I don't want my son to have it drummed into him and I'm starting to not go
    to church with her and take him swimming and hiking while she goes to
    church, she goes for her own self, I totally agree we are born atheists,
    and I,d rather my son learn about fencing, making things , gardening etc.
    I see so much time spent at churches, yet the peoples homes are in need of
    repair, need work done.
    I have worked abroad, dated girls of 3 different religeon, it's a set of
    rules witch are often common among them, going to gatherings give since of
    community, but to go every week is crazy, like how do you forget how to
    live your life from week to week?
    Environmentalism is the only one that makes since to me
    Some serious talks are going to happen in my house hold wish me luck.

  • #146

    Lance Gregorchuk (Saturday, 14 February 2015 19:31)

    @ Sandra. Oh come on. How many times do I need to use the unicorn analogy
    to prove that we don’t need to prove anything, yet the person who believes
    in unicorns or leprechauns or Santa Claus has the burden of proof. We are
    here like all other animals…to reproduce… that’s it. Atheists live
    incredibly moral lives because we know we only have one life and we chose
    to live it to the fullest. Christians are the ones who live immoral lives.
    What will happen to my kids if they don’t believe in your holy zombie (oh
    wait it’s a ghost right?) What will be their punishment? What will be the
    punishment for a North Korean child who has never even heard of Cheezus for
    not accepting him? Sandra, you believe this? Seriously…come on, your
    religion says if I don’t believe what you believe I will suffer pain, you
    live like the mafia, and lets face they are not that moral. Maybe next time
    you should take a look in the mirror before you start spewing your hate.

  • #147

    Anonymous (Wednesday, 18 February 2015 14:00)

    there is god...there is,what about the Prophets and the miracles and the
    evidence from those time.huh all of you will be ashamed in the day of
    judgement.3 of the biggest religions: Islam,Christianity,Judaism.From when
    the universe has started how is it made... there has been a start point,you
    think it was the big bang but also what about before that there has been a
    power that made them and created the world and that power was god's power.
    Of course always you ask questions to think about our fate and now think
    what if we tell our questions. please do research,at least read some books
    like Bible and Quran. the day is near, 1 day everyone dies and that day
    you'll ask for a second chance but it's too late and all those who
    disbelieved in Allah will go to hell. ( i'm only talking about the real and
    the only god: Allah not those like they worship useless stones or animals)
    yes we will have to do everything our god says! even if we have to
    sacrifice our children...when god said to prophet Ibrahim to kill his own
    child with a knife the prophet accepted but at the time he wanted to cut
    his neck the knife didn't work i mean it didn't cut..Allah just wanted to
    test his fate in believing him... so Allah didn't wanted the prophet really
    kill his son and it didn't happen!

    READ MY POST AND DO A RESEARCH AND THINK ABOUT IT.

  • #148

    Lance Gregorchuk (Thursday, 05 March 2015 16:32)

    Hey Anonymous. Who created your god? Was there something before your god?
    How do you know? Maybe your god was created by a really important god so he
    wouldn't have to deal with people like you. Look, I am the first to admit
    my grammer and spelling is horrible, but seriously Anonymous, what are
    you... like 9? What were you doing on an atheist site anyway? I bet you are
    questioning your faith, you wouldn't be here if you wern't. You must have
    googled us... because you must have googled "atheist parenting"... that
    would be like me googling "allah (small 'a' because there is no god) likes
    to chose pedophiles to be his prophet". Your god's prophet was a pedophile
    right? I mean, as an adult he did have sex with a 9 year old right? Wow...
    you worship a pedophile? Now that is seriously sick. You should be happy
    there isn't a hell because anyone who worships a pedophile would certainly
    be going there!

  • #149

    Ashlyn (Saturday, 07 March 2015 04:29)

    What do you people not understand? There is a God! I do not mean to cause
    any offense to anyone, but this is the truth. I know atheists believe in
    evolution but here's how I think of it. Humans are very complicated. One
    single cell in our body is more complicated than a plane. Planes don't make
    them selves, so how on earth could a human who by the way is made up of
    hundreds of thousands of cells make it self. That can't happen. I know
    there are many atheist parents who want what they think is best for their
    children, but christian parents also want the best for there children. In
    your article it says that the goal of athiests is to have as many secular
    children as possible, but christian parents most certainly don't want this
    for their children. So could exclude christian children from that
    statement? There is a God. A wonderful, merciful, kind, and loving God. God
    loves all of us so much he calls us his children even those who don't
    believe in him. Atheists just wan't to take the easy way out by not
    believing there is a God that they have to love and obey. The further
    America pulls away from God the more complicated every thing will be for
    this country. For instance when God's word was taken out of the schools in
    the 1960's it seems like slowley every thing started going down hill. Don't
    get me wrong I understand it wasn't perfect back then, but look where we
    are now! Kidnappings, suicide, killing your own familiy members.
    Coincidence? I think not! In public school they teach evolution. Atheist
    parents used to claim it offended them that their children were learnig
    about God, but did athiests ever stop to think that it offended christian
    parents that their children were learning about evolution? No! Of course
    not! Because now all the atheist parents are happy that their children get
    to learn about evolution! I know I know your thinking put them in private
    school. Reality flash: not every one has that kind of money! When judgment
    day comes you athiests will be begging forgivness to God, but it will be
    too late. Then you will regret your decisions. I'm sorry , and normally I
    don't talk like this, but the big bang theory is full of crap, and athists
    are very wrong for thinking christians are stupid! I can't wait for
    judgment day! Then all you atheists will find out who is right! The real
    tragedy is the lies our own schools are filling childrens heads with, and
    the lies you atheists are filling your childrens heads with. I know you
    don't believe in Jesus or God , but this makes them very sad! And yes they
    are real! I hope to God that many of you atheists will learn the truth
    before it's too late because if you have heard of hell you can probably
    imagine that pain of burning on fireforever won't feel to nice.

  • #150

    Lance Gregorchuk (Saturday, 07 March 2015 08:46)

    Oh Ashlyn where do I start? I love how you Christians always start trying
    not to offend, but end up threatening us non-believers with some sort of
    punishment for not believing in your magic. I am trying to imagine the pain
    you wish on us with your burning fire. Think about how sick you are, you
    are seriously messed up, and I personally think it is a form of child abuse
    that you teach this sickness to your children. You teach children that paid
    will results from not doing what you say. That is called extortion, the
    mafia uses this technique often and so do you. That is pretty sick don’t
    you think. So now I will prove evolution… have you ever seen a dog? Where
    do dogs come from? They evolved from…wolves, this is a fact, even the
    really little cute ones evolved from wolves, that is called evolution,
    there was no dog on your imaginary arc 4000 years ago, dogs have been
    evolving with humans for over 10,000 years, yes longer than your 6000 year
    old earth. Next one: Have you ever seen a mule? Guess how mules get here:
    From horses and donkeys, both are different species and create a new
    species… did you know that only dogs which are closely related to wolves
    can mate with wolves and dogs but a wolf cannot. Welcome to evolution, it
    is a fact, and every time you see a dog it is proof of that fact. Ashlyn,
    there is no god and evolution is a fact I just proved it.

  • #151

    April (Thursday, 12 March 2015 22:20)

    This article had nothing to do with Jesus, whatsoever, But rather the
    issues the writer has with her father. These issues would probably still be
    prevalent, regardless of him "finding Jesus" or not. Instead of blaming
    religion, it would be blamed on difference of opinions.

  • #152

    kaph (Tuesday, 24 March 2015 17:50)

    I grew up in the Soviet Empire. National religion was atheism.
    My parents grew up in Nazi Germany, national religion was atheism.
    Today we have communist China, N. Korea, etc.
    If you wish to live in God free world, try to live in one of the secular
    societies.
    Christian fundamentalism is no different than atheist fundamentalism.
    Historically, who build the first hospitals, schools, universities? People
    of faith.
    Who were Martin Luther King, Canon N. Copernicus, Galileo, Francis,
    Dominic, Moses, etc , people of faith
    It is easy to live in atheist in Judeo/Christian democratic world.
    Everything was given to you on a silver platter. Now try to live in
    communist China or N Korea and let me know if you prefer to live in a
    imperfect Judeo/Christian world or in utopian atheist world.

  • #153

    karl (Saturday, 18 April 2015 16:50)

    Children are born atheist? No.
    They are born fresh clean nothing. Atheism named so because it is a
    "positive claim/position".

    Leave kids out of this.
    Btw have fun explaining to an atheist child life after death. If they turn
    on you well... its because you didnt have the necessary tools to educate
    them.

  • #154

    susan (Sunday, 17 May 2015 05:30)

    My 5 year old grandsons of Christian parents are starting to say things
    about god, he knows everything, etc. How do I respond to these comments
    without getting in trouble with the parents? I'm very concerned that if I
    say the wrong thing I could end up not seeing them again but I don't want
    to play along and agree either. They stay with me fairly often. I was
    hoping for some coined response that people may know of when dealing with
    religious children. Thanks.

  • #155

    mem (Sunday, 17 May 2015 13:41)

    In trying to understand my daughter's decision to raise her two children as
    atheists, and I respect that, I googled for information and found your
    site. I had hoped it would be an intellectual and informative source. As a
    religious person I do not believe in damnation nor in shaming children or
    adults. I am not an anomaly. I am a Catholic involved in a Jesuit parish
    who embrace social justice, love and care for all creation. Your narrow
    mindedness is similar to that which you decry. Such biased labeling of
    another belief system or all beliefs or no beliefs, is still unregognizing
    the full humanity of others. I will look elsewhere. Fanatics for any cause
    are misdirected.

  • #156

    Lance (Sunday, 17 May 2015 16:21)

    Ok, where do I start?

    First kaph
    I grew up in the Soviet Empire. National religion was atheism.
    LG. And I guess everyone just discovered Russian Orthodoxy in the 90’s?
    My parents grew up in Nazi Germany, national religion was atheism.
    LG. No it wasn’t Catholicism was please get your facts straight.
    Today we have communist China, N. Korea, etc.
    If you wish to live in God free world, try to live in one of the secular
    societies.
    LG. Actually N. Korea is more like religion than most think. Father, son
    and now grandson are all worshiped like gods and if you live there and you
    don’t worship them you go to Hell (prison)
    Christian fundamentalism is no different than atheist fundamentalism.
    Atheist fundamentalism…seriously… the only weapon an atheist fundamentalist
    hast is a pen and paper, you are comparing that to Christian
    fundamentalism?
    Historically, who build the first hospitals, schools, universities? People
    of faith.
    No they didn’t!!!! Ever heard of a country called Greece?
    Who were Martin Luther King, Canon N. Copernicus, Galileo, Francis,
    Dominic, Moses, etc , people of faith
    I can’t believe I have to answer this: Galileo and Copernicus, you put them
    in the same sentence as Moses?
    It is easy to live in atheist in Judeo/Christian democratic world.
    Everything was given to you on a silver platter. Now try to live in
    communist China or N Korea and let me know if you prefer to live in a
    imperfect Judeo/Christian world or in utopian atheist world.
    I prefer to live in a world without religion
    Next Karl
    Children are born atheist? No.
    They are born fresh clean nothing. Atheism named so because it is a
    "positive claim/position".
    Leave kids out of this.
    Btw have fun explaining to an atheist child life after death. If they turn
    on you well... its because you didnt have the necessary tools to educate
    them.
    LG “Leave kids out of this!” And then your next sentence is that we need to
    explain to kids about life after death My kids know what happens after you
    die…no Virgins, No paradise, no fruit tree with a new fruit every month…
    Have you actually read in the bible what it says about heaven? I will
    provide now some other passages about heaven in the bible to you right now:
    “Truly I tell you, this generation will not pass away until all these
    things have taken place. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will
    not pass away.”
    Matt 24:34-35
    I guess heaven isn’t forever….
    And there was war in heaven; Michael and his angels fought against the
    dragon; and the dragon fought and his angels.
    Rev. 12:7
    And the armies of heaven, wearing fine linen, white and pure, were
    following him on white horses.
    Rev. 19:14
    Sounds like there is a bit of war going on up there! Dragons? Come on
    dragons? Why does heaven need an army?
    “From the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven has
    suffered violence, and the violent take it by force.”
    Matt. 11:12?
    Sound like fun… if you like living in Syria in 2015!!!!
    READ YOUR BIBLE ABOUT HEAVEN…It sounds like living hell to me!

  • #157

    Merrie (Monday, 01 June 2015 16:42)

    My 10 and 13 year old kids have been raised to be Athiests like we are. We
    share our values with our kids like everyone else on the planet. When they
    were younger and had questions about what religion was about I would
    explain that thousands of years ago, before people understood science they
    believed in magic and that's where religion came from. They understand that
    their friends an neighbors still believe in that magic and we don't. We
    come from a Christian/ European heritage so we enjoy those holidays in a
    secular way. They've never expressed a desire to try church or prayers and
    self identify as Athiests to their friends, seemingly without a second
    thought. They don't give a lot of thought to being Athiests because
    religion has never been part of their lives, although it is pervasive in
    our culture.

  • #158

    Megan (Saturday, 11 July 2015 14:30)

    Help! Raising a 7 year old amazing little girl who visits her dad every
    weekend. Her father is an extreme born again Christian. he has completely
    brainwashed my child to the point that she is becoming intolerant of any
    one who is not a born again Christian. He tells her things like I am going
    to hell for not believing. They (his church and family) use scare tactics
    and prizes/reward systems to get my child to follow along blindly. At first
    I tried to share stories of fairies and magic with her thinking she
    wouldn't reject it right away and hoping it would plant a seed of doubt. or
    at least some questions. But the powers of Christianity to persuade a young
    impressionable mind were no match. It had always been my belief that it was
    best to let my child discover religion and the world around her and then
    let her come to her own decisions. But the person the Christian church is
    turning her into is hateful and judgemental. I don't know what to do!!
    please if you have any suggestions at all, I need help! Thank you- a
    loving, godless mother

  • #159

    debra carr (Thursday, 16 July 2015 04:27)

    I think your website site is disgusting.

  • #160

    MGRCassandra (Monday, 03 August 2015 00:41)

    When people ask for my beliefs, I always answer that I'm non-religious and
    avoid the word Atheist at all costs. Why? Because I don't want to be
    associated with your kind.

    I honestly can't tell the difference between militant atheists and
    religious nutjobs. You're so hateful and full of yourselves, you made
    atheism your religion. Oh the irony.

  • #161

    D. Lloyd (Thursday, 26 November 2015 14:11)

    I am a long distance grandparent of twins. My son and his ex co-parent the
    7 year olds. Its that time of year again that I detest. Oh yes I love the
    music, the gatherings....but I absolutely do not believe in God. The
    children have 3 sets of great and 3 sets of grandparents living around
    them. Can you imagine the schmozzle of gifts that go on? (the grandparents
    are divorced and remarried ).That family are lip service Catholics.
    I usually take them for long periods of time, school break, summer holidays
    and this year I realize its not enough to try and set an example of being
    kind to others, and thoughful, but words are important. I am an avid
    gardener, cook and homemaker, Widow, and have been living on my own for
    decades.
    I do make a point of having them involved with my pastimes and they love
    it....reading, looking at art books, digging, walking, swimming.
    Can anyone suggest moral storybooks that don't involve religion.


  • #162

    Johnny (Thursday, 26 November 2015 14:29)

    I'm Agnostic, I don't need belief. Both atheists and theist have to believe
    without proof that they are right. I don't want to teach my child to
    believe in either, I especially don't want to fill his head with negative
    issues, e.g.: don't believe in them, believe in me ideology. Unfortunately
    children should be shielded away from religion until such age that they can
    judge for themselves the lunacy of it. Most religions frighten children
    into believing the myths and it's hard when you grow up to not absorb the
    brain washing. It's child abuse and should be made illegal until children
    are at least sixteen. You probably would find the population of religious
    people would drop dramatically. Evolution is only a theory but it has been
    tested again and again but religion is never tested.

  • #163

    Johnny (Thursday, 26 November 2015 14:42)

    I just read some of the above. I must say on both sides you need to a.
    address your english and b. make constructive not destructive posts.

  • #164

    Confused mom (Monday, 07 December 2015 23:13)

    My family has never gone to church, I tell my two kids that some people
    believe in other stories, but recently my son comes home from school
    telling me that "God is a big guy watching over us and takes care of us,
    that's what my friends say" I try to tell him that, that is their stories
    if belief and we have nature. What can I tell the Catholic parents of these
    boys? Or how else can I tell my son that God isn't the story we believe in.
    Or how to tell his little friends without them shunning him, or keep
    pushing the subject because they are afraid he's going to hell.

  • #165

    PumpkinSoup (Thursday, 10 December 2015 06:20)

    I am reading these comments with much fascination. I am on the website out
    of curiosity because I am an atheist raising two little kids. I myself was
    raised an atheist (and have no lingering scars from it) but prefer to call
    myself nonsecular to avoid the negative connotations of the word. From my
    admittedly limited experience, people who have become atheist despite of
    their families' beliefs are more likely to be strident about it. My husband
    is this way. For me, I was raised atheist and I'm pretty calm about it.

    So, because I was raised like this and am perfectly happy with it, I'll
    offer my two cents:
    1. Don't be afraid of the word God. Don't object to the Pledge of
    Allegiance, the Cub Scout Oath, etc. etc. It is part of our culture, for
    better or worse. The word is not indoctrination. It's not even a slippery
    slope. It is a word and it has no power over you.
    2. Teach all religions. The history of the world revolves around religion
    (and greed but, well, you know...) and kids should understand that. Don't
    bother to take the kids to church, though. Not only would that be boring
    but it might be disrespectful for those who do believe.
    3. There are some super awesome religious people out there. Those who do
    practice what they preach. Let your kids work side by side with them. Find
    that their good and your good are the same, regardless of religious/not
    religious. Volunteer with the community, teach them good morals, lean in.
    And, stay away from the crazies.
    4. If the kid does believe, be chill about it. Maybe try to make sure they
    don't become militant and cut you out of their life. Don't make your
    atheism something to rebel against. Wouldn't that be ironic.

    My totally untested belief is that the ability to believe in God, and I
    mean really crazy believe and not just float with it, is genetic. It takes
    some great leaps to be religious. My brain is not wired for it. It is not
    in my DNA. This is nature vs. nurture stuff. I don't think it's all
    nurture. Keep that in mind.

  • 

  • Atheist Parents
  • Answering Questions
  • Atheist Parent's Book Store
  • Parenting Without Belief
  • Events
  • Forum For Parents
  • Hate Mail & Hell-Wishing
  • Talking To Muslims
  • Talking to Christians
  • Contact us
  • Newsletter
  • Religion Europe

[image]
[image]

Book of the Month

A Must Read!!!!

[image]

It's a book for children of all ages about the origins of beliefs and religion
and the importance of the scientific method.

[image]

Get the arguments for the facts!

[image]

Click here to order over Amazon

Click here to order at B&N

[image]

This Month's Author of the month

David G. McAfee

[image]

Read the interview with David G. Mcafee by clicking here

[image]
[image]

The Interview With Alom Shaha

Click here now!

Author of the Month

[image]

Read the interview with Dale McGowan, author of Parenting Beyond Belief.

Author of the Month

[image]
[image]

Read the interview with the children`s book author Lance Gregorchuk

^1 Applies to shipping within Germany. Information about shipping policies for
other countries can be found here: Payment and Delivery Information
About | Terms | Return Policy and Return Form | Payment and Delivery
Information | Privacy Policy | Sitemap
The pictures and text on this website are the property of Atheist Parents . org
Log out | Edit
