McGowan Writing & Research

  • Home
  • About Dale
  • PBB Events
  • Excerpts
  • Contributors
  • Dale's Blog: Meming of Life
  • Parents Beyond Belief Blog
  • Recommended Resources
  • Contact Dale

     


      □ “Irresistible…a compelling read.” —Newsweek

      □ “A wonderful new resource” —WoodMoor Village

      □ “Accessible, funny, and still substantial” —Esperanza Review

      □ “Highly recommended” —Library Journal

      □ “An invaluable sourcebook” —Robert M. Price, PhD

      □ “Engaging and down-to-earth” —Library Journal

      □ “Makes those of us struggling with these issues feel not so alone” 
        —PunditMom Reviews

      □ “Touching…succinct…a must-read guide” —Life in the Hundred-Acre Wood

      □ “A wonderful array of essays” —Mother Talk Network

      □ #1 Parenting Reference for 40+ weeks Amazon.com

      □ “Blows away the standard parenting book drivel” —Sex, Genes & Evolution

      □ “Almost impossible to put down!” —A Gaggle of Book Reviews

      □ “Simply terrific” —Sex, Genes & Evolution

      □ “Irresistible…a compelling read.” —Newsweek

Parenting Beyond Belief

On Raising Ethical, Caring Kids Without Religion

[covers]

Parenting Beyond Belief is a book for loving and thoughtful parents who wish to
raise their children without religion. There are scores of books available for
religious parents. Now there's one for the rest of us.

Buy from Amazon Buy from Barnes & Noble

Raising Freethinkers offers solutions to the unique challenges secular parents
face and provides specific answers to common questions, as well as over 100
activities for both parents and children.

Buy from Amazon

Questions? See our FAQ, below.

PBB Study Guide / Media Kit

  • [pdf-icon]studyguide.pdf
  • [doc-icon]studyguide.doc
  • [pdf-icon]MediaKit.pdf

Interview with Dale McGowan

embed(http://video.google.com/googleplayer.swf?docid=7631087472444088702&hl=en&
fs=true)

Recorded by filmmaker Gregory Walsh for a forthcoming documentary on religious
disbelief in America

Frequently Asked Questions

Is Parenting Beyond Belief the first book for nonreligious parents?

There have been some excellent shorter books and booklets on parenting without
religion, with more limited scope and by smaller presses. Parenting Beyond
Belief is the first comprehensive parenting book by a major publisher on
raising children without religion. And fortunately not the last! Raising
Freethinkers: A Practical Guide for Parenting Beyond Belief is now available at
Amazon.com.

How large is the audience for such books?

Enormous—and growing. In 1990, 8 percent of Americans identified themselves as
nonreligious. By 2008 that sector had grown to 15 percent. A minimum of seven
million nonreligious parents are raising children in the U.S. today, and doing
so with limited resources. It is estimated that over 10 million "nominally
religious" parents in the U.S. attend church for social and structural benefits
and would welcome a secular parenting book.

How is Raising Freethinkers different from the first book?

Parenting Beyond Belief articulates a general philosophy of nonreligious
parenting. Raising Freethinkers offers more specific, practical advice,
including answers to the 100 most common questions nonreligious parents ask,
over 100 family activities and over 200 recommended books, DVDs, organizations
and websites to continue finding ideas and answers.

Why do nonreligious parents need resources specifically for them?

[laughingb]

Religion has much to offer parents: an established community, a pre-defined set
of values, rites of passage, a means of engendering wonder, comforting answers
to the big questions, and consoling explanations to ease experiences of
hardship and loss. Parenting Beyond Belief demonstrates the many ways in which
these undeniable benefits can be had without the harmful effects of religion.
It is also intended to show secular parents, who often feel isolated in their
disbelief, that they are far from alone.

I don't believe in the existence of a supernatural God, but I consider myself
religious in a liberal sense. Is this book for me?

"Without religion" in the subtitle refers to the more commonly understood
definition of religion as "belief in a divine or superhuman power to be obeyed
and worshipped as the creator and ruler of the universe" (Webster's New 20th
Century). In short, it refers to theistic religion. The broader definition
preferred by some denominations (including Unitarian Universalism) of religion
as a set of strongly-held beliefs, values, and attitudes is obviously not what
we are parenting without. So if you are a parent raising children without ideas
of a supernatural god, divine revelations, or holy scriptures, this book is
indeed written with you in mind.

You mention "the harmful effects of religion." What harmful effects?

Honest questioning is too often disallowed in monotheistic religion, the word
"values" turned on its head, and an "us-vs.-them" mentality reinforced. Many
feel that fear—of God, sin, doubt, and difference—is more prevalent with
religion than without, and that children often learn to obey authority rather
than develop their own judgment.

Do these books intend to convert parents away from religious parenting?

Not at all. The books are resources to help parents who have already decided to
raise their children without religion to do it well. Many religious readers
have praised the tone of the books, which encourage co-existence, not conflict.
Anything that helps parents to be better parents, regardless of their beliefs,
is a good thing.

How can you not believe in God when…[fill in the blank]?

A fine question, but that's not our topic. Though the book includes one essay
with the classic arguments for and against religious belief, that's not the
main purpose—and if we spend time arguing about disbelief itself, we will never
get to parenting! Readers wishing to engage those fascinating and worthy
questions should look to the many outstanding books exploring basic questions
of religious faith and doubt. This book is for those who have already
investigated those questions and decided that religion is not for them.

How has Parenting Beyond Belief been received?

Many readers who were worried that it would be "anti-religious" have expressed
pleasant surprise after reading it. "Remarkably even-handed" is a common
response. Though some contributors are strongly critical of religious ideas,
others express a continuing affection for it. The first sentence of Julia
Sweeney's essay, for example, is "I loved being Catholic." Others urge secular
parents to be religiously literate, to empathize with believers, and to applaud
the good works of religion—at the same time urging them to stand up against the
hatred, ignorance and divisiveness that can also flow from religious belief.

Most of all, the book reveals that believers and nonbelievers share most of the
same values. Like people of religious faith, nonbelievers value love, honesty,
kindness and generosity, are captivated by wonder and moved by the mysterious,
seek consolation in times of loss, and treasure the companionship of others. We
want to raise children who are ethical and caring. Nonetheless, polls indicate
that nonbelievers are the most mistrusted and feared minority in the U.S. This
fear is groundless—and this book can comfort people of faith by helping them
realize that there is nothing to fear from nonbelievers. Our shared dreams for
our children show that we are far more alike than unalike.

Aren't these books just encouraging indoctrination in a different direction?

[teenhome]

The defining value of freethought is the right of individuals to think for
themselves. Childhood indoctrination of any kind denies that right. Parents
instill values, but choosing a worldview that expresses those values must be in
the hands of the individual. Children should not be labeled in any way.
Parenting Beyond Belief and Raising Freethinkers underline the importance of
keeping children open and "undeclared" so they can freely self-identify with
the worldview of their choice when they are older.

Do the books' contributors always agree?

Parenting Beyond Belief practices what it preaches by offering diverse
opinions. What other book would have two ministers and Penn Jillette? There's
even a point-counterpoint in which two authors square off on how to handle the
Santa Claus story. And this is precisely the model we want to present to our
kids—not lockstep agreement, but a healthy, open, friendly exchange of ideas
and an invitation for you to sort it out for yourself. The four contributors to
Raising Freethinkers follow the same philosophy.

What topics are covered?

Parenting Beyond Belief begins with personal essays by such secular parents as
Julia Sweeney, Penn Jillette and Richard Dawkins, followed by chapters titled
Living with Religion, Holidays and Celebrations, Being and Doing Good, Meaning
and Purpose, Dealing with Death, Questioning, the Wonder of Science, and
Seeking Community. Raising Freethinkers follows a simiar topical framework but
offers a more practical approach, centered around 100 common questions, 100
activities, and over 200 resource reviews for nonreligious parents.

How can children be moral without religion?

[girlhome]

Both books have chapters devoted to this very topic. Behaving morally makes
sense, and most people behave well for sensible reasons—even if they think they
are relying on commandments. Psychologist Dr. Jean Mercer contributed an essay
in PBB describing the six stages of moral development. Children are more likely
to move to the higher levels of development and to retain a more nuanced and
reliable moral sense if they learn the reasonable principles of ethical
behavior than if they rely on parental or scriptural authority.

Dealing with death must be a challenge.

It always is, isn't it? Even those who believe in an afterlife tend to cry at
funerals and try hard to delay their own passing. There's no greater challenge
for a human being than knowing life will end. But an increasing number of
people have come to believe that real maturity requires us to come to terms
peacefully with mortality rather than pretending we don't die after all. That
life ends has rightly been recognized as the single fact that lends life
genuine preciousness. Several consoling insights from philosophy are included
in Parenting Beyond Belief.

What could possibly replace Heaven as a consolation in the face of death?

Don't forget that along with hope of Heaven comes fear of Hell. The
naturalistic view dispenses with both. Our remaining fear of death has a lot to
do with our failure to really grasp nonexistence—something we already
"experienced" before birth, after all. We weren't afraid then. Why fear a
return to that fearless condition? The Rev. Dr. Kendyl Gibbons has written a
marvelous, practical essay for the book on how to talk to children about death
without recourse to supernatural illusions.

What's a minister doing in a book about raising kids without religion?

Two, in fact. Kendyl Gibbons is a minister in the Unitarian Universalist
denomination. Many people aren't aware that most UUs describe themselves as
either humanists (46 percent) or atheists (19 percent) but still want the other
benefits of belonging to a church fellowship. Kendyl's experience of taking
secular families through grief and loss is powerfully evident in her writing.
She is joined in the book by the Rev. Dr. Roberta Nelson, who writes about the
need for religious literacy. And Raising Freethinkers is co-authored by Jan
Devor, a Unitarian humanist religious educator.

Isn't it important for kids to feel part of something larger than themselves?

Of course it is. Fortunately as human beings we are already part of many things
larger than ourselves. Our families, our communities, humanity, and the
interconnected web of life on Earth are just a few examples of larger things
that give us purpose and context. Setting religion aside does not suddenly make
us islands unto ourselves. It should instead underline our interconnectedness
and reliance on each other.

So religion isn't all bad?

Of course not. Like most human creations, it's a mixture of good and bad. We
should embrace the best elements while finding our way out of those that are
undesirable. The most important freedom we can give our children is the freedom
to think, to discern, to determine for themselves what's good and what's bad in
anything. But when we place ideas beyond critique, the bad survives along with
the good—and that's not good for anyone. Only if we agree to put all of our
ideas on the table can we work together to separate those ideas that are
unworthy and life-destroying from those that are noble and life-affirming.

(C) 2012 Dale McGowan | Design by Twist & Twirl

