Skip to Main Content Area

  • Home
  • Contact
  • Donate

Home

  • Learn more
      □ Locations
      □ Activities
      □ Mission
      □ FAQs
      □ Board of Directors
      □ Staff
      □ History
  • Media
      □ Media Highlights
      □ Press Kit
      □ Photos
  • Resources
      □ Books, Blogs, & Podcasts
      □ For the Kids
      □ In Your Schools
      □ Local Community
      □ National Partners
  • Get Involved
      □ Donate
      □ Volunteer
  • Contact Us

Camp Quest (noun): 1. Summer camp beyond belief! 2. A place for fun, friends,
and freethought for kids ages 8-17.

[A]
[B]
[C]
[D]
[E]
[F]
[G]

[green-bull] Register for Camp

[green-bull] Volunteer at Camp

[green-bull] Donate to Camp

Stay in touch ●

Follow Camp Quest on Twitter Be a Camp Quest fan on Facebook [Rss] [Flic]

Explore Our Camps

Camp Quest Arizona
* July 17 - 23, 2016

Camp Quest Chesapeake (VA)
* July 17 - 24, 2016

Camp Quest Colorado
* August 8 - 13, 2016

Camp Quest Kansas City
* June 12 - 18, 2016

Camp Quest Michigan
* July 17 - 23, 2016

Camp Quest Minnesota
* Week One: July 17 - 23, 2016 
* Week Two: July 24 - 30, 2016

Camp Quest NorthWest
* August 14 - 20, 2016

Camp Quest Ohio
* Week One: June 18 - 25, 2016
* Week Two: July 16 - 23, 2016

Camp Quest Oklahoma
* June 19 - 25, 2016

Camp Quest Smoky Mts. (TN)
* July 31 - August 6, 2016

Camp Quest South Carolina
* July 10 - 16, 2016

Camp Quest Texas
* Week One: July 31 - August 6, 2016
* Week Two: August 7 - 13, 2016 

Camp Quest West (CA)
* NorCal Week One: July 3 - 9, 2016
* NorCal Week Two: July 10 - 16, 2016
* SoCal: July 24 - 30, 2016

International Partners

Tweets about "'#campquest OR from:CampQuestOK OR from:CampQuestSC OR
from:CampQuestOhio OR from:cqwchief OR from:CampQuestNW OR from:CQChesapeake OR
from:CampQuest OR from:CampQuestTexas OR from:CampQuestUK OR from:CampQuestMN
OR from:CampQuestAZ',"

Navigation

  • Feed aggregator

Book Review: What If I'm an Atheist?

Submitted by Book Reviews on Wed, 01/06/2016 - 13:27

[what-if-im-an-atheist-9]What If I’m an Atheist? A Teen’s Guide to Exploring a
Life Without Religion by David Seidman is an excellent resource for pre-teens
and teens, or even the philosophical youngster, who find themselves questioning
religion and/or the existence of God. This guide will help young people
explore, navigate, and develop their own worldviews, providing a
non-judgmental, safe place for the non-religious and religious alike to ask
questions and delve into what they do and do not believe.

 

In a society and world where it is considered “the norm”—and dare I say the
“right” way of living—to be part of some kind of religion, what does one do
when they do not feel they belong in a religious group? What if one finds
themselves questioning and/or doubting the existence of God and/or an
afterlife? What if one is pondering all of these things while still living in a
religious household with parents who will likely frown upon (at the very least)
their child’s lack of belief? What If I’m an Atheist is a thorough source that
comprehensively explores a myriad of questions and challenges an unbeliever and
/or believer-turning-unbeliever may face.

 >> Read more

  • Book Reviews's blog
  • share

Holidays and Food

Submitted by STEM on Mon, 12/14/2015 - 09:09

FeastThink about your favorite family traditions and holidays. What makes them
special? Aside from the people and the seasonal fun activities, food is
probably a big part of them. It’s a big part of Camp Quest traditions too: we
love s’mores around the campfire! 

When baking or cooking, we usually follow a recipe that a family member gave us
or that we found on a cooking blog. These recipes are often based on techniques
and ingredient combinations discovered by cultures over thousands of years.
People discovered how to make cheese at least 7,500 years ago (older than
writing!), but they probably didn’t do so using the scientific method and
certainly didn’t understand the chemistry and microbiology of cheesemaking. 

Today, food scientists use chemistry, biology, engineering, botany, and more to
make food safe, nutritious, delicious, affordable, and abundant. Food
scientists know exactly what each ingredient contributes to the texture,
nutrition, flavor, and shelf life of a product, as well as how to scale
production up from a small lab to a huge factory that makes thousands of
identical cookies per minute. 

The nutrition we get from food comes from macronutrients (carbohydrates, fats,
proteins, fiber, water) and micronutrients (vitamins and minerals). Probiotics
are bacteria and yeasts found in some foods, like yogurt, that live in your
intestines and help you digest food (read on to learn how to get to know your
own microbiota!). Food can also contain additives like colorings, caffeine, and
preservatives. Recipes involve acids, bases, liquids, rising agents, etc...it’s
amazing ancient peoples let alone modern food scientists can understand
everything that’s happening in your seemingly simple loaf of bread!  >> Read
more

  • STEM's blog
  • share

Book Review: Pay It Forward

Submitted by Book Reviews on Wed, 12/02/2015 - 09:18

Pay It ForwardPay It Forward is written by Catherine Ryan Hyde and has a
recommended reading level of grades 3 - 7. This story reflects how easy
kindness comes to children and how by keeping our eyes open daily to those
around us, we can touch their lives with kindness, even in small ways.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

“I'll pay you back.” This is something likely all of us have said to someone or
have had someone say to us after a favor or a kind act. But what if, instead of
paying it back, we began to pay it forward? 

When his teacher gave the class the extra credit assignment: “Think of an idea
for world change and put it into action," Trevor's idea was simple: perform an
act of kindness for three strangers and request that they “pay it forward” by
performing an act of kindness for three other strangers, and so on, thus
creating a rippling effect throughout the community.

His concept seems straightforward and in a child's mind, it is. Adults,
however, have a different understanding of the world—one that is sometimes
cynical due to past experience with selfishness or dishonesty from others. This
book emphasizes that although others' actions are not something we can control,
we can control our own. We can choose to do good and be kind to others around
us, regardless of whether or not they choose to do the same.

 >> Read more

  • Book Reviews's blog
  • share

Five Great Videos from the Ethics Video Library

Submitted by Ethics on Wed, 11/25/2015 - 10:02

DogHave you checked out the Ethics Video Library yet? Camp Quest is building an
online resource for humanist teachers and parents to watch and discuss videos
taken from all over the internet. Click the link to take a look!

To give you a taste of the over 270 videos over 14 different categories that we
already have logged in the Library, here are 5 that we really enjoy.

                            Are Animals Empathetic?

As an educational resource aimed mostly at secular humanist parents and
teachers, we’ve already included several that help explain our continuity with
the rest of the animal kingdom.  Some focus more on the science, but this one
is great because it shows that continuity.  The video covers story of Koko, the
gorilla who knows sign language, and then recent research that shows that
bonobos exhibit “emotional contagion.”

                                  >> Read more

  • Ethics's blog
  • share

Hydrogen Cars: The Future is Now!

Submitted by STEM on Tue, 11/03/2015 - 08:59

Camp Quest CarThe long-awaited “Back to the Future Day” turned out to be more
exciting than anyone could have imagined: Toyota released the first hydrogen
fuel cell car! And at 2am on October 21st 2015, a Camp Quest volunteer became
the very first person ever to own one! Congrats to Neil Polzin, the Vice Chair
of Camp Quest, Camp Director at Camp Quest West, and new Mirai owner. Check out
that Camp Quest sticker! Also for more fun check out the activities at the end
of this article for more science fun!

The Back to the Future movie trilogy came out in the 1980s and showed what life
would be like 30 years from then, in 2015. Well, we don’t have flying cars, Mr.
Fusion personal power plants, or hoverboards...but we do have some pretty
amazing technologies that no one predicted. Your phone has way more computing
power than the car-sized computers NASA used to land on the moon!

 >> Read more

  • STEM's blog
  • share

Book Review: I Am Malala: How One Girl Stood Up for Education and Changed the
World

Submitted by Book Reviews on Mon, 10/26/2015 - 07:54

I Am MalalaMalala Yousafzai tells the inspiring story of her life (so far) in
her gripping memoir I Am Malala: How One Girl Stood Up for Education and
Changed the World. Malala's story is great for helping young people develop a
diverse, global view while demonstrating the universal importance of education
and critical thinking. Moreover, Malala's story is a powerful example of the
power young people have to change the world. Recommended for youth 6^th grade
and up, her story is sure to be one that inspires, enthralls, and tugs at a
range of emotions.

Malala's story is one of courage during times of adversity, tenacity in the
midst of resistance and an unquenchable thirst to learn.

Ever since she was a young girl, barely old enough to form her own words,
Malala would stand at the front of her father's classroom in the Swat Valley of
Pakistan giving passionate speeches and lectures to an imaginary audience. The
daughter of a school owner and teacher, school has always been like a home to
Malala. Her father's passion for education did not have limits—education was to
be for every boy and every girl, regardless of tradition or certain political/
religious influences. Always her father's shadow, Malala was quick to absorb
his passion for education.

 >> Read more

  • Book Reviews's blog
  • share

4 Tips for Talking About Philosophy with Your Kids

Submitted by Ethics on Tue, 10/20/2015 - 09:21

Chicken or the Egg?A good place to start, both for this post and with your
kids, is asking “What is Philosophy?”  Well, Philosophy is not a collection of
catchy phrases or our personal worldviews.  If you go to any of the university
philosophy departments around the country you’ll find a thriving discipline
that focuses on a number of fields of inquiry.  But we can’t tell our 9 year
olds they’ll have to wait until they graduate high school to start asking about
ethics, knowledge, and reality, the three main topics philosophers look into.  
And if you haven’t noticed already, they’re asking these questions by the
bushel. 

But just as importantly, these questions are super difficult – for us!  How do
we discuss these questions when we likely haven’t even taken a philosophy
course ourselves on our own trips through college?

Here are four tips for parents and educators who don’t already have graduate
degrees in both philosophy and education. 

 

 >> Read more

  • Ethics's blog
  • share

Wendy Thomas Russell, author of Relax, It's Just God, Visits Camp Quest and
Tells Us What's on Her Mind

Submitted by MaryBarczak on Tue, 10/13/2015 - 09:13

WendyWendy Thomas Russell is an award winning journalist, author of Relax, It’s
Just God: How and Why to Talk to Your Kids About Religion When You’re Not
Religious, and blogger at Natural Wonderers on Patheos’ atheist channel. She is
also a member of the Board of Advisers for the Yale Humanist Community. Wendy
currently lives in Southern California with her husband and daughter.

 

To start, tell us a little bit about when and why you became interested in
non-religious or secular parenting?

Like most parenting writers, my journey started with my kid. My daughter,
Maxine, was 5 at the time. I was 37. At that point in my life, religion — or
atheism, for that matter — just wasn’t a topic that came up very often. My
secularism was kind of a non-thing. But then Maxine started asking questions,
and I realized I was seriously unprepared. I mean, I knew that I wanted to
raise a really kind person who was generally literate in religion. But that
didn’t add up to a plan, and I needed one. When I looked around and found
nothing that resembled the book I wanted to read, I decided to write my own.

 

From what we've read, it seems a lot of your writing revolves around, one the
one hand, respectfully exploring important concepts – like meaning, death, god,
and morality – as world religions teach them, and then on the other, exploring
these concepts in a new light without religion.

Could you first say a bit about religious literacy, a topic we wrote on
recently. Why do you think it matters so much?

I don’t think we can raise our kids to be truly open-minded and appreciative of
diversity without introducing them to religion — or encouraging them to explore
religion for themselves. I get very little out of religion (other than an
academic fascination with it) and my daughter may grow up to feel the same, but
I need her to know what other people believe and why they believe it. And I
need her to know that it’s okay to believe things that I don’t. She was born
into a freethinking family, and that means she gets to have her own opinion on
this. 

  >> Read more

  • MaryBarczak's blog
  • share

The Olympics of Science: The Nobel Prize

Submitted by STEM on Mon, 10/05/2015 - 09:42

PrizeYou’ve probably heard about the Nobel Prizes, which are awarded every year
to scientists, authors, and organizations for exceptional contributions to
science, literature, peace, and society. Many of the Nobel winners are Famous
Freethinkers too.

But have you heard about the Ig Nobel Prizes for improbable research? They are
awarded to people doing strange, unexpected, creative, and/or funny-sounding
research. The Nobel Prizes are very serious: they are given to people who have
spent decades working on a single idea or problem at an extremely fancy
ceremony with Swedish royalty. The Ig Nobel ceremony is in contrast silly and
generally not about world-changing contributions to science or society, but it
is just as inspiring. The goal of the Ig Nobels is to “make people laugh, then
make them think.”

Here are a few of our favorite 2015 Ig Nobel Prizes:

  • a chemical recipe to partially un-boil an egg

  • nearly all mammals empty their bladders in about 21 seconds (try this at
    home!)

  • the word "huh?" (or its equivalent) seems to exist in every human language

  • when you attach a weighted stick to the rear end of a chicken, the chicken
    then walks in a manner similar to that in which dinosaurs are thought to
    have walked

Read through past years’ winners to learn about levitating frogs, how gum
flavors affect your brain waves, dogs’ bathroom habits, the arrest of a
one-handed man for clapping, how Pepsi brought peace to the Philippines, and
that black holes fulfill all the technical requirements to be the location of
Hell.

 >> Read more

  • STEM's blog
  • share

Heather's Dad is Donating $1,500 to Camp Quest if You Match Him!

Submitted by CQ Director on Wed, 09/30/2015 - 12:20

Tommy and HeatherTommy pledges $1,500 to Camp Quest if you will match it.
Tommy's daughter Heather had a great experience at Camp Quest Smoky Mountains
this summer, and he wants to make sure that more children like Heather get to
have the same experience.  

Here's what Tommy has to say:

    This past August my 9-year-old daughter, Heather, attended her first
    sleep-away summer camp at Camp Quest in Eastern Tennessee’s Smoky
    Mountains. She had the time of her life there and is begging to go back
    next year. She loved the campfires and marshmallows, friends, games, and
    nature hikes. As a father, however, it was nice to know that her experience
    at Camp Quest was much more than the typical “hiking and campfires.” Camp
    Quest really stands out in this regard. In-between the standard campfire
    songs or nature hikes, there are science experiments and even chances for
    the campers to learn about philosophy and ethics. In an area surrounded by
    vacation bible school summer camps, it’s nice to know there is a secular,
    nonreligious alternative aimed at promoting humanist values, learning about
    science, and encouraging wonder at the natural world. 

    My daughter’s camping experience was phenomenal. Not only did she have fun,
    but I could be sure she was engaged in learning life skills that really
    matter at the same time. I want other children to be able do the same. The
    world needs more Camp Quests and that is why I am donating $1,500 to the
    organization and asking for the public to donate matching funds. 

Help us make Tommy's match and create more amazing weeks of Camp Quest for kids
like Heather all over the United States. 

(Psst... we're still finishing up our match from the Stiefel Freethought
Foundation. If you've done that math that means that your gift to this
challenge actually gets quadrupled instead of doubled! There is no better time
to give.) >> Read more

  • CQ Director's blog
  • share

  • 1
  • 2
  • 3
  • 4
  • 5
  • 6
  • 7
  • 8
  • 9
  • …
  • next ›
  • last »

Syndicate content

Copyright (C)2011-2015 Camp Quest, Inc.
P.O. Box 2552
Columbus, OH 43216
614-441-9534
Home  |  Contact  |  Terms of Use

