 

KIDS

[NewlogoWhite]

WITHOUT GOD

You're not the only one.

kids teens parents press

Welcome to Kids Without God, a site for the millions of young people around the
world who have embraced science, rejected superstition, and are dedicated to
being Good Without A God!

(C) 2012 American Humanist Association, a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization |
Privacy Policy

X

National Ad Campaign to Promote KidsWithoutGod.com on Buses and Online

[250x250]

For Release Nov. 13, 2012 at 7:00 am Eastern Time

Contact: Brian Magee, 202-238-9088, mobile: 202-681-2425,
bmagee@americanhumanist.org

(Washington, DC, November 13, 2012)   In an effort to strengthen and support
kids and teenagers who don t happen to believe in a god, the American Humanist
Association is promoting its newly created website: KidsWithoutGod.com. This
engaging resource offers a welcoming home for humanist, atheist and other
non-traditionally religious kids where they can find information untainted by
supernaturalism on a wide range of topics, including religion in public
schools, science, discrimination, sexuality, and reading suggestions.

The various ad images being used can be found online here.

 Whether they already made up their minds to reject supernatural explanations,
or are just questioning, it s time to make available an online resource that s
built just for kids without God,  said Roy Speckhardt, executive director of
the American Humanist Association.  These kids may be from traditionally
religious families, or from families like that of President Barack Obama, whose
mother was a secular humanist. KidsWithoutGod.com will be a friendly online
community for kids who might be too shy to ask an adult directly what it s like
to be good without a god. 

KidsWithoutGod.com

To make sure this new resource becomes familiar to kids across the country, the
American Humanist Association is spending over $30,000 on an ad campaign
promoting KidsWithoutGod.com. Advertisements will appear on 140 Metro buses in
Washington DC, including 20 king-size exterior bus posters. The campaign also
includes online ads that will appear on the family of websites run by
Cheezburger.com and Pandora, as well as Facebook, Reddit, Google, and YouTube.
Requests to purchase ads on websites run by Disney.com and National Geographic
Kids were turned down based on the content.

KidsWithoutGod.com is actually two websites, one for teens and one for younger
children, both accessed through the same domain.

 With the plethora of websites geared toward teaching kids about Christianity,
Judaism, or Islam, we re pleased to add humanism to the discussion,  added
Speckhardt.  Kids should know there s another way to learn about morals and
values it doesn't need to come from traditional religion. 

###

The American Humanist Association (www.americanhumanist.org) advocates for the
rights and viewpoints of humanists. Founded in 1941 and headquartered in
Washington, DC, its work is extended through more than 150 local chapters and
affiliates across America.

Humanism is a progressive philosophy of life that, without theism, affirms our
responsibility to lead ethical lives of value to self and humanity.

X

ABOUT US

[Newlogo] Kids Without God was created and maintained by the American Humanist
Association (AHA) in order to provide a digital resource for children,
teenagers and parents who are interested in learning more about humanism and
non-theism.
[ contact us: info@kidswithoutgod.com | (800) 837-3792 ]

The goal of this website is to encourage curiosity, critical thinking, and
tolerance among young people , as well as to provide accurate information
regarding a wide range of issues related to humanism, science, culture and
history.

We hope that you and your kids will enjoy reading about Darwin the Dog, who is
committed to an uplifting, altruistic morality without the influence of
religion; and who is able to enjoy mythology while still differentiating
between the real and the imaginary.

There are also lots of fun and informative videos to watch and science
experiments that you and your kids can do together to explore scientific
principles and learn about the scientific method.

Teenagers and adults can also visit our teen site, where they can learn about
dealing with intolerance, standing up for their rights, browse our recommended
reading list, and much more. Parental Advisory Notice: The Kids Without God
Teen website contains discussions of themes, issues and language that might not
be appropriate for younger children.

HUMANIST FAMILIES

Being a member of a humanist family offers unique challenges and rewards, and
everyone s story is a little bit different. We are proud to present four
personal accounts about the experience of being a Humanist Mom, Dad, 
Grandparent, and Kid; as well as Helping our Kids Become Humanists.

MORE FROM AHA

    [khec] [humanistin] [darwinday] [humanistso] [femcaucus] [AHLC] [lgbt]
