                             The Debunker's Domain

                    Robert Sheaffer - Skeptical to the Max

                           Mr. Skeptic at Stonehenge

             These pages are frequently updated with new material
                  Check Back Often! Last update Dec. 23, 2015

A Symbol of Freedom - hated by totalitarians and their admirers around the
world

 

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                     NEWS:
My latest book  [PV_FrontCover5]Psychic Vibrations  is now available as an
E-Book from JREF, the James Randi Educational Foundation. If you want the
paperback version, click the book icon and enter discount code SPK8R6GT using
that link to get 25% off list price!
 
New files & updates to my Historical UFO page.  Never-before seen letters
discussing the Hill "UFO Abduction" between Dr. Benjamin Simon, Philip J.
Klass, Betty Hill, and myself. Dr. Simon strongly states his opinion to Klass
that the abduction story was a fantasy, and attempts to justify not stating
this forthwith earlier. Betty Hill tries to convince Klass that her abduction
story is true. Includes the skeptical article I wrote about the Hill case in 
Official UFO magazine, August, 1976. (added Dec. 22. 2015. 48 pages, 14 MB).
 
Now on the Blog, www.BadUFOs.com . Rendle-sham; The Amazing Meeting 2015; The
Roswell Slides fiasco; Betty Hill's Last Hurrah.
 
Just released - Version 10 of my free Windows real-time astronomy software 
RTGUI, with an enhanced user interface to make it easier to run on a Windows
Tablet. It runs on any Windows PC or Tablet  - very convenient to taked it out
in  the field! It recommends the "best" sky objects to observe, based on your
location and time. It now can download positions for any asteroid or comet.
Find objects rapidly, have your telescope easily "Goto" them, get an 'instant
Skychart'.

     The above ads selected by Google do not necessarily imply endorsement
                                    [alum]

Hello, this is Robert Sheaffer. I'm an author, a free-lance writer, and
skeptical investigator of all manner of bogus claims. In real life, I have been
working as a data communications engineer in the Silicon Valley, although I'm
now living near San Diego. I have been a fellow of the Committee for Skeptical
Inquiry (CSI - formerly CSICOP ) - since 1977. I have been a regular
contributor and columnist for their magazine, The Skeptical Inquirer, since its
second issue of publication (Spring/Summer, 1977). I have also been a member of
Mensa for over twenty years.

I'm an equal-opportunity debunker, refuting whatever nonsense, in my judgment,
stands in the greatest need of refuting, no matter from what source it may
come, no matter how privileged, esteemed, or sacrosanct. Sacred cows, after
all, make the best hamburger. As H. L. Mencken wrote in Prejudices (Fourth
Series),

    The liberation of the human mind has never been furthered by such learned
    dunderheads [priests and pedants]; it has been furthered by gay fellows who
    heaved dead cats into sanctuaries and then went roistering down the
    highways of the world, proving to all men that doubt, after all, was safe
    -- that the god in the sanctuary was finite in his power, and hence a
    fraud. One horse-laugh is worth ten thousand syllogisms. It is not only
    more effective; it is also vastly more intelligent."

Please join me as we heave a few dead cats into the sanctuaries of the world,
and demonstrate that at least some Emperors (and Empresses) have no clothes.
                                        

                                    [bomb]

 


                                    [alum]

 

                              Skeptical Resources

My Books, which can be ordered directly from AMAZON.COM using links from this
site, plus other published writings.

Skeptical Information on UFOs - One of my areas of specialization.

Exposing  Feminist Ms-Information.

Refuting Creationism, Revisionism, and other Right-Wing Falsehoods, 
Distortions, and Superstitions.

Conspiracies! - find out how they have secretly been plotting against you! (Of
course, "they" can be any group you don't like).

 

Miscellaneous Skeptical Resources

Astronomy and Visual Observations of Earth Satellites.

 


                                    [alum]

 

If you want to support the Debunker's Domain, please consider making a donation using PayPal - it's fast, free and secure!
 
                                         Journey around
                                        the Skeptic Ring
                      Skeptic Ring Home   [Next Site]
                        What is this?     [Prev Site]
                                            [Random]
                                         [List Next 5]
                                        [List All Sites]

 

[evolve1] [NoAliens]

           Entire contents Copyright   1996-2014 by Robert Sheaffer

 

                           Visit Robert's Home Page.

                      Robert's Page of Singing and Opera.

 Robert has appeared on numerous TV and radio shows (most recently on "UFO Hot
   Spots" on the History Channel), and is available to lecture on the above
                subjects to your college or other organization.

         If you have any comments or suggestions, please send me email

              Visitors since Feb. 10, 2005: free web hit counter

 Remember: a thing cannot be "debunked" unless it is filled with bunk to begin
                                     with!

                                        


                                    [alum]
