www.brichto.com: the home of Sidney Brichto's translations, books and articles
     embed(text5.swf)             embed(text6.swf)            embed(text7.swf)           embed
                                                                                      (text8.swf)
                                  [titlenew]

embed                             The first & second series of The People's Bible
(button1.swf)
embed
(button3.swf)
embed
(button7.swf)
embed
(button5.swf)                           newly translated by Sidney Brichto
embed
(button4.swf)
embed
(button6.swf)
embed
(button8.swf)      
embed
(forthcoming.swf)
embed
(apocalypse.swf)
embed
(button9.swf)       The simple purpose of this new Bible is to give it back to the people who
embed               welcome a good story, fine poetry and inspiration. For too long now the bible
(button10.swf)      has become the best-seller, least read. The purpose of this edition is to
embed               recast it in such a manner as to make it readable. To achieve this, the
(button11.swf)      translation features:

                      • Complete biblical text, faithfully translated. Tiresome parts, such as
                        geneological tables have been moved to the appendix.
                      • Modern but still dignified translation which read like epic adventures,
                        love stories, poetry and thrillers.
                      • An 'easy read' - textual problems which could interrupt the reader's
                        concentration are clarified within the text.
                      • An interactive bible - the traditional biblical narrative is so sparse that
                        it leaves much to the imagination. On occasion the translator has responded
                        by interacting with the text to fill out the story, such elabarations are
                        indicated by a bold print.
                      • A user-friendly bible - the books are not divided by traditional verses and
                        chapters, but refernces to these are found on the top of every page.
                      • Stimulating and informative introductions.
                      • Easily accessable footnotes at the bottom of pages explain and provide
                        additional insights to the text.
                      • Attractively presented books of the bible that can be read on the train
                        etc. without embarrasment.
                      • Each volume fits into a pocket or handbag
                      • Designed for everyone- from those who have never read the bible tothose who
                        have tried and failed, to those who think it is only for the religious, and
                        to those who love the bible and would be interested in another
                        interpretation.

                                        The recommended retail price is -L-6.99

  back to top       ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                    
                                               Note From The Translator

                    [Sidney]I come from an Othodox Jewish background and was raised with a love for
                    the bible and my literary heritage. I decided that there were many dimensions
                    to human spiritual aspirations and that it was not reasonable to assume that
                    any person or group had a monopoly on the 'word of God'. I became a Liberal
                    Rabbi because it enabled me to hold on to the foundations of my faith without
                    compelling me to surrender my free will. This view has enabled me to appreciate
                    the faiths of others whether they were fundamental or radical. Also I could see
                    that different spiritual faiths reflected different aspects of human
                    psychological and religious needs, I have an enormous respect for Christianity,
                    Islam and all the religions whose existance over hundred and thousands of years
                    prove that they have successfully tapped into the nature of the human soul. For
                    this reason I have written and been involved in ecumenical discussions and
                    debates which reveal the similarites differences in human perspectives which
                    has led to such an enrichment of civilisation.

                    While I have written on many theological issues, particulary the problem of
                    evil in a world created by a caring and beneficent God, my present ambition is
                    to return that, the greatest moral literature ever written, back to the
                    ordinary person. It has always pained me that the bible, which I have read with
                    such pleasure, even when I ceased to believe that its heroes were perfect and
                    that every word of it was historically true, should be abandoned by the average
                    reader. The preface and introduction to the first series of The People's Bible
                    elaborate on this theme.
  back to top
                    I have read the Old Testament many times, but in the course of translating the
                    bible to make it more accessable I have, myself, learned so much. This I think
                    was due to reading it not with a need to rationalise it as my religous
                    heritage, but as a library of books which reveal so much about the nature of
                    men and women, and their aspirations for a purpose in life, whether or not one
                    believed in the sanctity of its origins.

                    As to the New Testament, this is the first time, I believe, that a Rabbi has
                    ever translated it. I did so because I felt that as a Jew, I would have a
                    different insight into the birth of Chrisitianity, than would Christians who
                    were, so to speak, to the religion born. Already my translation of Luke & the
                    Acts of the Apostles and the completion of my first draft of The Letters of
                    Paul have given me a greater appreciation fo the revolutionary genius which led
                    to the domination of Christianity in Western culture. Indeed I also now feel,
                    and I direct this to my Jewish readers, that one cannot properly understand
                    Judaism without understanding Christianity. They both present radically
                    different, but equally valid methods for achieving a world living in harmony
                    and peace.

                    I would welcome anyone interested The People's Bible to share their views with
                    me with the promise that I will make every attempt to respond





━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
     embed(text5.swf)             embed(text6.swf)            embed(text7.swf)           embed
                                                                                      (text8.swf)
www.brichto.com: the home of Sidney Brichto's translations, books and articles

 

