                                                                                                                                                                          [sprtr2]Login[sprtr2]
Holy Ghost Parish                                            January 13, 2016  
[menubar_to]
 Search [                    ]  [mybutton] [menubar_sp] [bread_img_] Home   
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                    
                                         Welcome to the Holy Ghost Parish Website                                     Parish Contacts
                                                                                                                               

                                                                                                                               

                                                                                                                          Mass Times

                                                                    Holy Ghost Parish,                              Sunday: 8:30am, 10am &
                                                                                                                     11:30am, 7pm Mass in
                                                              [SMXNIRDpAA]Luton[B9AlTykZkV]                                 Polish
                                                                                                                       Monday - Friday
                                                       RORATE MASS               by candle light in                 Weekly Mass Times can
                                                                                                                       be found on the
                                                                                                                       newsletter link

                                                                    honour of OUR LADY                                 Contact Details

                                                             Friday 18 December 2015 - 6.30am                           Parish Priest
                                                                                                                       Monsignor Kevin
                                                                                                                          McGinnell
                                                                                                                         01582 728849
                                                                                                                         07889 762005
                                                                                                                    mcginnell@nores.org.uk
                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                        Sr Teresa dhs
                                       Our Golden Jubilee 2015 album has been updated with the latest event photos.      01582 755917

                                                Click on the following links to browse through each event!              Parish Office
                                                                                                                      Secretary Caroline
                                       Golden Jubilee Mass  |  Polish Evening  | Irish Evening |  Pakistani Evening        Anderson
                                                            | Corpus Christi| English Evening|                           01582 722127
                                                                                                                    Open Monday, Tuesday,
                                                                                                                          Thursday &
                                                                                                                       09.30am - 12.30pm
                                                                             [church]
                                                                                                                       Twitter Account
                                       POPE FRANCIS - Encyclical Letter to the Word on Creation
                                                                                                                       @holyghostluton
                                       So where do the solutions lie? Here are six of the best
                                                                                                                       Facebook Account
                                       •    In “The Gospel of Creation”: Chapter 2 examines the Old and New
                                       Testaments to show how human life is grounded in our relationships with God,   Holy Ghost Parish
                                       with our neighbours and with the created world. We must acknowledge our sins
                                       when we break these relationships and realize our “tremendous                    Parish Centre 
                                       responsibility” towards all of God’s creation                                     01582 722127

                                       •    In Integral Ecology: Chapter 4 explores this new paradigm of justice        Parish Address
                                       which means “the analysis of environmental problems cannot be separated from    Parochial House
                                       the analysis of human, family, work-related and urban contexts”, while         33 Westbourne Road
                                       solutions must be based on “a preferential option for the poorest of our             Luton
                                       brothers and sisters”                                                               LU4 8JD
                                                                                                                           View Map
                                       •    In Dialogue: Chapter 5, entitled ‘Lines of Approach and Action’                    
                                       stresses the need for “honest and open debate, so that particular interests
                                       or ideologies will not prejudice the common good”. The Church does not
                                       presume to settle scientific questions or to replace politics, but it can               
                                       promote dialogue on global and local governance, transparent
                                       decision-making, sustainable use of natural resources, as well as engaging              
                                       in respectful dialogue with other people of faith and with the scientific
                                       world                                                                                   

                                       •    In Education: Chapter 6 urges schools, families, the media and the            Mass Times
                                       churches to help reshape habits and behavior. Overcoming individualism,
                                       while changing our lifestyles and consumer choices, can bring much “pressure Sunday: 8:30am, 10am &
                                       to bear on those who wield political, economic and social power” causing      11:30am, 7pm Mass in
                                       significant changes in society.                                                      Polish
                                                                                                                       Monday - Friday
                                       •    In Ecological Conversion: Chapter 6 also highlights St Francis of       Weekly Mass Times can
                                       Assisi as the model of “a more passionate concern for the protection of our     be found on the
                                       world”, characterized by gratitude and generosity, creativity and enthusiasm    newsletter link

                                       •    In Spirituality: Finally Chapter 6 and the two concluding prayers show     Contact Details
                                       how faith in God can shape and inspire our care for the environment. The
                                       Sacraments, the Trinity, the model of the Holy Family and our hope for           Parish Priest
                                       eternal life can teach, motivate and strengthen us to protect the natural       Monsignor Kevin
                                       world that God has given us.                                                       McGinnell
                                                                                                                         01582 728849
                                                                                                                         07889 762005
                                       ENCYCLICAL LETTER                                                            mcginnell@nores.org.uk
                                                                                                                               
                                                                       LAUDATO SI’                                      Sr Teresa dhs
                                                                                                                         01582 755917
                                                               of the HOLY FATHER FRANCIS 
                                                                                                                        Parish Office
                                                               ON CARE FOR OUR COMMON HOME                            Secretary Caroline
                                                                                                                           Anderson
                                                                                                                         01582 722127
                                                                                                                    Open Monday, Tuesday,
                                       .                                                                                  Thursday &
                                                                                                                       09.30am - 12.30pm
                                       Vatican Radio offers this summary of the Pope's encyclical.
                                                                                                                       Twitter Account
                                       Pope Francis’ encyclical is focused on the idea of "integral ecology,"
                                       connecting care of the natural world with justice for the poorest and most      @holyghostluton
                                       vulnerable people. Only by radically reshaping our relationships with God,
                                       with our neighbours and with the natural world, he says, can we hope to         Facebook Account
                                       tackle the threats facing our planet today. Science, he insists, is the best
                                       tool by which we can listen to the cry of the earth, while dialogue and        Holy Ghost Parish
                                       education are the two keys that can “help us to escape the spiral of
                                       self-destruction which currently engulfs us."                                    Parish Centre 
                                                                                                                         01582 722127
                                       At the heart of the Pope’s reflections is the question: “What kind of world
                                       do we want to leave to those who come after us, to children who are now          Parish Address
                                       growing up?” The answers he suggests call for profound changes to political,    Parochial House
                                       economic, cultural and social systems, as well as to our individual            33 Westbourne Road
                                       lifestyles.                                                                          Luton
                                                                                                                           LU4 8JD
                                                                                                                           View Map
                                                                                                                               
                                       Chapter 1 sets out six of the most serious challenges facing “our common
                                       home”
                                                                                                                               
                                       •    Pollution, waste and our throwaway mentality: “the earth, our home, is
                                       beginning to look more and more like an immense pile of filth”

                                       •    Climate change: “one of the principle challenges facing humanity in our
                                       day” but “many of those who possess more resources and economic or political
                                       power seem mostly to be concerned with masking the problems or concealing
                                       their symptoms”

                                       •    Water: “access to safe drinkable water is a basic and universal human
                                       right” yet entire populations, and especially children get sick and die
                                       because of contaminated water

                                       •    Biodiversity: “Each year sees the disappearance of thousands of plant
                                       and animal species” and the consequences cannot be predicted as “all of us,
                                       as living creatures, are dependent on one another”. Often transnational
                                       economic interests obstruct this protection

                                       •    Breakdown of society: Current models of development adversely affect
                                       the quality of life of most of humanity and “many cities are huge,
                                       inefficient structures, excessively wasteful of energy and water

                                       •    Global inequality: Environmental problems affect the most vulnerable
                                       people, the greater part of the world’s population and the solution is not
                                       reducing the birth rate but counteracting “an extreme and selective
                                       consumerism”

                                       Chapter 3 explores six of the deep root causes of these growing crises

                                       •    Technology: While it can bring progress towards sustainable
                                       development, without “a sound ethics”, it gives “those with the knowledge,
                                       and especially the economic resources… an impressive dominance over the
                                       whole of humanity”

                                       •    The technocratic mentality: “the economy accepts every advance in
                                       technology with a view to profit……yet by itself the market cannot guarantee
                                       integral human development and social inclusion”

                                       •    Anthropocentrism: we fail to understand our place in the world and our
                                       relationship with nature. Interpersonal relations and protection of human
                                       life must be set above technical reasoning so environmental concern “is also
                                       incompatible with the justification of abortion”

                                       •    Practical relativism: environmental degradation and social decay is the
                                       result of seeing “everything as irrelevant unless it serves one’s own
                                       immediate interests”

                                       •    Employment: Integral ecology needs to take account of the value of
                                       labour so everyone must be able to have work and it’s “bad business for
                                       society” to stop investing in people to achieve short-term financial gains

                                       •    Biological technologies: GMOs are a “complex environmental issue” which
                                       have helped to resolve problems but bring difficulties such as concentrating
                                       land “in the hands of a few owners”, threatening small producers,
                                       biodiversity and ecosystems

                                        

                                                                       Prayers from

                                                                    ENCYCLICAL LETTER

                                                                       LAUDATO SI’

                                                                of the HOLY FATHER FRANCIS
                                       
                                                               ON CARE FOR OUR COMMON HOME
                                       
                                       “At the conclusion of this lengthy reflection which has been both joyful and
                                       troubling, I propose that we offer two prayers. The first we can share with
                                       all who believe in a God who is the all-powerful Creator, while in the other
                                       we Christians ask for inspiration to take up the commitment to creation set
Home                                   before us by the Gospel of Jesus.” [n.246.]
Parish History
       The Church                       
       Parish Priests
       Church Organ                     
Minister Rotas
Parish Life                            A prayer for our earth
       Parish Council / Minutes
       Parish Groups                    
       300 Club
       Luton Food Bank                 All-powerful God,
       Soup Kitchen Rota
Sacramental Programs                   you are present in the whole universe
       Baptism
       Matrimony                       and in the smallest of your creatures.
       Confirmation
       Reconciliation                  You embrace with your tenderness all that exists.
       Anointing of the Sick
       RCIA                            Pour out upon us the power of your love,
Local Parishes and Schools
Contact Us                             that we may protect life and beauty.
Links
Newsletter / Liturgy Sheet             Fill us with peace,
Parish Centre
       Parish What's On                that we may live
       Hall Hire
Photo Gallery                          as brothers and sisters,
       Easter 2015
       Fr. Kevin's 25th Anniversary    harming no one.
       Christmas 2014
       New Narthex                      
       San Francesco Di Assisi 2014
       NEW CATHOLICS EASTER VIGIL 2014 O God of the poor,
       San Francesco 2013
       Bishop James' visit 2013        help us to rescue the abandoned and forgotten of this earth,
       Palm Sunday 2013
       Holy Thursday 2013              so precious in your eyes.
       Easter Sunday 2013
       Confirmation 2013               Bring healing to our lives,
       Good Friday and Holy Saturday
       Blessing of the graves          that we may protect the world
       Beech Hill Scouts
Luton Catholic Day                     and not prey on it,
Funerals
Golden Jubilee 2015                    that we may sow beauty,
       Minutes 
       jubilee gallery                 not pollution and destruction.
          Golden Jubilee Mass
          Pakistani Evening            Touch the hearts
          Irish Evening
          Polish Evening               of those who look only for gain
          Corpus Christi Evening
          English Evening              at the expense of the poor and the earth.
                   
                                       Teach us to discover the worth of each thing,

                                       to be filled with awe and contemplation,

                                       to recognize that we are profoundly united

                                       with every creature

                                       as we journey towards your infinite light.

                                        

                                       We thank you for being with us each day.

                                       Encourage us, we pray, in our struggle

                                       for justice, love and peace.

                                        

                                       A Christian prayer in union with creation

                                       Father, we praise you with all your creatures.

                                       They came forth from your all-powerful hand;

                                       they are yours, filled with your presence and your tender love.

                                       Praise be to you!

                                       Son of God, Jesus,through you all things were made.

                                       You were formed in the womb of Mary our Mother,

                                       you became part of this earth,

                                       and you gazed upon this world with human eyes.

                                       Today you are alive in every creaturein your risen glory.

                                       Praise be to you!

                                        

                                       Holy Spirit, by your lightyou guide this world towards the Father’s love

                                       and accompany creation as it groans in travail.

                                       You also dwell in our hearts and you inspire us to do what is good.

                                       Praise be to you!

                                        

                                       Triune Lord, wondrous community of infinite love,

                                       teach us to contemplate youin the beauty of the universe,

                                       for all things speak of you.

                                       Awaken our praise and thankfulness

                                       for every being that you have made.

                                       Give us the grace to feel profoundly joinedto everything that is.

                                       God of love, show us our place in this world

                                       as channels of your lovefor all the creatures of this earth,

                                       for not one of them is forgotten in your sight.

                                       Enlighten those who possess power and money

                                       that they may avoid the sin of indifference,

                                       that they may love the common good, advance the weak,

                                       and care for this world in which we live.

                                       The poor and the earth are crying out.

                                       O Lord, seize us with your power and light,

                                       help us to protect all life,to prepare for a better future,

                                       for the coming of your Kingdomof justice, peace, love and beauty.

                                       Praise be to you!Amen.

                                        

                                        

                                        

                                        

                                        

                                        

                                        

                                        

                                        

                                        

                                        

                                       Golden Jubilee Mass 24th May 2015

                                       Our Golden Jubilee Mass was a complete success! We would like to thank
                                       everyone that made the event special and also extend our thanks to our
                                       guests:

                                       Her Majest's Lieutenant of and in the County of Bedfordshire - Mrs Helen
                                       Nellis

                                       The High Sheriff of Bedfordshire - Isabelle, the Countess of Erroll

                                       The Mayor of Luton - Councillor Dave Taylor

                                       The Area Dean of the Church of England - Reverend Janet Mackenzie

                                        

                                       Clergy from Dublin:

                                       Father Hugh Kavanagh - Father Martin Noone - Father Tom Culreavy - Father
                                       Joe Coyne

                                       Father Michail Comer - Father Georger Tanham 0 Father Tom Carney.

                                        

                                       Deacons:

                                       Rev Mr Paul Wyer - Rev Jim Grennell - Rev Jim Bannan

                                        

                                       Presider:

                                       RT Rev Peter Doyle, Bishop of Northampton

                                        

                                       [DSC_0208]

                                       Keep checking for updates on photos

                                        

                                       We will update the front page each month with information of upcoming
                                       events.  But to download the Event Calendar, click here

                                        Click here to access / download the current Newsletter and to also view /
                                       download past Newsletters

                                       Parish Prayer

                                       Leader - Come, Holy Spirit, fill the hearts of your faithful 
                                       All -  And kindle in them the fire of your love
                                       Leader - Send forth your Spirit, and they shall be created 
                                       All -  And you will renew the face of the earth
                                       Leader - Let us pray (we pause)  
                                       ALL - Lord, by the light of the Holy Spirit, you have taught the hearts of
                                       your faithful. In the same Spirit help us to love what is right and always
                                       rejoice in your consolation. We ask this through Christ our Lord. Amen.

                                        

                                                               OUR PARISH MISSION STATEMENT

                                       We, as members of Holy Ghost Parish, are a community united in our faith and
                                        strengthened through prayer, worship and service. We accept our call from
                                        God to work together,to serve all with justice, peace and love in the name
                                                                of our Lord Jesus Christ.



                                                        Home | Minister Rotas | Parish Life | Sacramental Programs | Local Parishes and
                                                        Schools | Contact Us | Links | Newsletter / Liturgy Sheet | Luton Catholic Day
                                                                               | Funerals | Golden Jubilee 2015
                                                                 (C) 2011 Holy Ghost Parish   Terms Of Use  Privacy Statement                                                                  
