Cherokee Presbytery

One Church, Many Locations, Following Christ Together

[Search]
  • About
  • Clerks’ Corner
  • Connections
  • Mission Structure
  • News & Cherokee Chat
  • Presbytery Meetings and Minutes
  • Resources
  • Staff
  • Summer Camp!
  • Support

  • About
  • Clerks’ Corner
  • Connections
  • Mission Structure
  • News & Cherokee Chat
  • Presbytery Meetings and Minutes
  • Resources
  • Staff
  • Summer Camp!
  • Support

About

Mailing Address:  PO Box 1839 ~ Cartersville, GA  30120

Physical Address:  183 West Main St., Suite A ~ Cartersville, GA  30120

Phone:  770-382-6280  Fax:  770-382-7804

Our Vision

Cherokee Presbytery is called to be a holy expression of God’s intention for
the world, so together we can follow Christ into the future with confidence,
hope and joy.  As such, Cherokee Presbytery is one model of a missional church
which equips its members as missionaries sent by God to live and proclaim His
Kingdom in the world.

With God’s help, Cherokee Presbytery shall fulfill its mission by:

 1. Being a Christ-centered worshiping community of faith,
 2. Living and proclaiming God’s Kingdom in the world,
 3. Supporting one another as ambassadors sent by God to change the world,
 4. Listening to God and one another,
 5. Mutually supporting, respecting, and being accountable to one another, and
 6. Supporting united mission efforts.

OUR CORE VALUES

 1. Cherokee Presbytery is one church with a branch wherever there is a
    congregation;
 2. Cherokee Presbytery is united in mission within and beyond its own bounds;
 3. Cherokee Presbytery congregations cooperate and collaborate in shared
    ministries;
 4. Just as Jesus came to serve and not be served, Cherokee Presbytery has
    servant leadership;
 5. Cherokee Presbytery strives for consensus decision-making; and
 6. Cherokee Presbytery practices spiritual discernment prior to engaging in
    parliamentary procedures on matters of importance.

THnew give PMX buttonEOLOGICAL DECLARATION

THEOLOGICAL DECLARATION

Cherokee Presbytery, in union with her congregations and the wider Presbyterian
Church(USA) confesses her faith when she bears a present witness to God’s grace
in Jesus Christ. (1)  Realizing that all organizations are marked by human sin
and error, this witness is, nonetheless presented as a holy expression of God’s
will for the world, a call to unity in that expression, and obedience to the
Lordship of Christ in all times and places.

We confess our own need for God’s continuing redemption of our lives as a
community and as individuals. (2)  Throughout history, God’s people have found
their way only haltingly as they have moved toward the Kingdom.  Seeking to
find God’s will, we have consistently marred it with our own agendas and
desires.  This has resulted in a blurred vision of God’s grace and an
inconsistent witness to God’s work in the world. (3)

Nonetheless, we are called out and empowered by the Spirit of God to be a holy
expression of God’s intention for the world. (4) (5) Trusting in God’s grace,
we seek to discern God’s intention through prayer, outreach, worship,
education, and reformation. (6)  Rejoicing in God’s presence, we seek to meet
God where God is already at work, affirming our Historic Principles and the
Great Ends of the Church. (7)  Confident of God’s Providence, we boldly
continue to express God’s love and intention, knowing that the One Who has
called us will surely equip us for the work to which we are called.

We are called to unity in demonstrating this expression.  From Biblical times,
God has worked in individuals, but also in communities.  God has called
together those whom God has chosen, first in Israel and now in the New Israel,
the Church. (8) (9)  The unity of the Church is not seen in unanimity of
agreement on all questions, rather in the recognition of our common bond in
service to Christ.  This unity functions to bind us together in spite of
disagreements which may arise so that our Lord may be glorified in all, by all.
(10)

The future of the Church and the world are solely in the hands of God. (11) 
Assured of God’s ultimate redemption of all creation, we gladly join hearts and
hands with each other as the Church Reformed, Always Being Reformed. (12) 
Celebrating the journey of faith as God’s Children, we approach the time to
come with confidence, joy and hope.

Glory be to the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit.  Amen.

– Submitted by the Cherokee Presbytery Vision Team and adopted by the body
August 26, 2008.

Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published.

[                              ]Author *

[                              ]Email *

[                              ]Website

[                                             ]
[                                             ]
[                                             ]
[                                             ]
[                                             ]
[                                             ]

[Post Comment] 

[ ] Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

[ ] Notify me of new posts by email.

Challenging Assembly Action 10-03 (Clerk’s Corner)

  • Cherokee Presbytery Prayer Calendar for 2016 December 7, 2015

[Search]
Archives

  • December 2015

Admin

  • Log in
  • Entries RSS
  • Comments RSS
  • WordPress.org

(C) 2016 Cherokee Presbytery

Theme by Anders Noren — Up ↑

