 

  • Home
  • About Us
      □ Church Without Walls
      □ Our Staff
      □ Leadership Contact List
      □ Worship
      □ Community Partners
  • Forum
  • Blog
  • Ministries
      □ Kids & Sunday School
      □ Youth
      □ Adults
      □ Community Ministries
      □ Music
      □ Parish Nurse Ministry
      □ Missions
      □ Scouting Program
  • Video
      □ Special Events
      □ Sunday Services
  • News & Events
      □ Calendar
      □ News
      □ VCI

  • [TRTY_churc]

    Church Without Walls

    Centered in Jesus Christ, Trinity United Methodist Church is an inclusive,
    progressive community of faith in which persons grow in devotion, love and
    service. Read More
  • [TRTY_white]

    Active Community

    As part of the Trinity faith community, you’re part of a movement to
    transform the world. Hope, social justice, the love of God, and good humor
    are at the heart of all we are and do. We invite you to learn more about… 
    Read More

› ‹

  • 1
  • 2

 

Welcome to Trinity United Methodist ChurchDavid Nellist

Dear Church,

The Vital Church Initiative (VCI) program that the church entered into a year
ago is entering a new and exciting stage. February 19-21, a Consultation Team
will come to the church to speak to leaders and the congregation. This team
will already have a great deal of info about the church so will come with a
tremendous awareness and understanding of Trinity.

To ensure everyone in the church has a voice there will be an open meeting on
February 20 from 10am- 3pm. This is known as a Consultation Meeting, and will
be led by Naomi Garcia, one of our Conference Ministry consultants.

Before the consultation event there will be a pre-consultation event on January
30, 9am-noon, led by Pastor Dan Duncan. Dan is former Pastor of Church of the
Dunes UMC, and is currently working with Kalamazoo First UMC. Dan has been
assigned as a coach to work with Trinity to help assist us through the VCI
process. An open congregational meeting will take place on January 30 so that
we can be informed of the VCI process and hopefully have our questions
answered.

Please put both these dates in your calendar and do your utmost to attend as
your input is vital and valued!

Rev. David Nellist, Senior Pastor

 

News & Events

New 9am Casual Worship
Join us every Sunday in the Parlor for a relaxed, casual 45 minute
worship service. Coffee, conversation, and creativity included! Classic worship
at 10am in the Sanctuary.

 coffee

 

Trinity United Methodist Church

Church Programs: We have a lot to offer at Trinity; watch our video to hear
about just a few things going on every week here at our church.

Trinity United Methodist Church

Trinity & Community: We love people unconditionally. We want to share the
radically inclusive hospitality and love of Christ.

Trinity United Methodist Church

Trinity & Community:Church Without Walls: We're not afraid to search out what
our faith is all about; in a practical way in this modern society.

Newsletters

JANUARY 2016 Parenting Christian Kids


JANUARY 2016 Trinity in Touch

Trinity-Sign.jpg

Trinity-Church.jpg

Hospitality Statement

Trinity United Methodist Church celebrates the diversity of the human
community, and affirms the sacred worth of each person as a recipient of God’s
love and grace. As disciples of Jesus Christ, we declare ourselves to be an
open and inclusive congregation, and welcome into full participation all
persons regardless of gender, race, national origin, physical or mental
ability, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, marital status or economic
condition.

Worship Times

Summer: 10:00am
September-May: 9:00am & 10:00am
 
Facebook.png  twitter.png  Picasa.png
 
 
 

Contact Information


Trinity United Methodist Church
1100 Lake Dr SE
Grand Rapids, MI 49506-1538
Church Office: (616) 456-7168
Community Ministries Office: (616) 456-7260

 

Closing Policy


In the event of inclement weather, if the Grand Rapids Public Schools are
cancelled, Trinity is closed. If Sunday morning worship is cancelled, you will
find it listed on Wood TV 8 and WZZM 13.

 

Email Us  |  Map It

 

 


 

 

Our Mission

Trinity United Methodist Church is an inclusive, progressive community of faith
in which persons grow in faith, love and service in the spirit of Jesus Christ.

Our Vision

We will proclaim, share and live the radically inclusive love of Jesus Christ
as we become a church without walls.

 
(C) All Rights Reserved. Trinity United Methodist Church
Web Development by Mindshare Marketing Group
Back to Top
