[ltn_head]
[search articles     ] [button_sub]
[search directory    ] [button_sub]
HOME
DIRECTORY
CALENDAR
SHEET MUSIC CATALOGUE
MIC CONTACTS
TEXT ARCHIVE
MIC HISTORY
PAA NORSK

1000 Years of Norwegian Church Music

The new Norwegian Hymn Book, published in 1985, reflects one thousand years of
religious songs of praise, from the Gregorian' chants of the 10th Century
through the vernacular hymns of the Reformation and hymns from many different
religious movements in the 18th and 19th centuries to contemporary songs and
spirituals from churches and chapels.

25.09.2002 | By: Harald Herresthal

Harald Herresthal

When Christianity came to Norway at the end of the l0th Century, the universal
Catholic Church had long since laid down the rules for singing at religious
services. Only in connection with the veneration of saints was there room for
national contributions to the Gregorian choral tradition, and only here was it
possible for Norwegian-composed sequences and other liturgical music to find
their place. Best known is the sequence Lux illuxit, which was used during the
recent St. Olav celebrations at Nidaros Cathedral, The sequence Predicasti Dei
care was used at weekly Wednesday masses, held on the day on which St. Olav was
martyred in 1030.

During the first half of the 14th Century, some Norwegian churches acquired
organs and the statue of the lyre player m Nidaros Cathedral in Trondheim shows
that many other instruments were used in Church services. Norwegian theology
students, who were trained in Paris at that time, introduced polyphony from the
Notre Dame School and other impulses from European music. Norway had long had
close ties with England, and historical sources show that the cultured classes
in Europe's northernmost archbishopric were satisfied with only the best
quality.

The Reformation was introduced in 1536 by a resolution of the Council of the
Realm in Copenhagen, which had been the capital of Denmark-Norway since 1398.
During the following century, the Roman Catholic Church music and liturgy were
replaced by the German Lutheran liturgy and metrical psalms, as written in the
first hymn books by Hans Thomiss n (1569). Jespers n's Graduale (1573)
contained music for Church services, which were led by pupils of the Latin
schools. No seventeenth century Norwegian choral music has survived; but the
old heilagvisene (holy songs) have lived on in religious folk music right up to
our own times. Due to the Lutheran church’s emphasis on the organ as a solo
instrument and an instrument to lead the congregation's ringing, an increasing
number of churches acquired their own organs. Many sources describe the
wonderful sound of the organ and relate how string, wind and various percussion
instruments were used at weddings and other religious festivals. Eighteenth
century accounts describe an active musical life around the churches in the
larger towns. Occasional cantatas were performed at private and public
ceremonies, and Passiontide concerts became an annual tradition at an early
date. The few composers we know of were immigrant Germans or Danes. Georg von
Bertuch (1668-1743), Commandant of Akershus Castle from 1719, was a keen
composer who had close contacts with European music. A choral cantata and a
couple of solo cantatas performed at Oslo Cathedral are still in existence.

Johan Daniel Berlin (1714-1787) was cathedral organist and official city
musician in Trondheim. His violin concerto and orchestral sinfonias evidence
his capable craftsmanship and the high quality of Trondheim's musicians.
Berlin's church music has not been preserved. On the other hand, in spring 1995
it was once again possible to hear the wonderful 30-stop organ built by Joachim
Wagner, first played by Berlin in autumn 1741.
This baroque organ, which has just been restored and re-installed in the
Nidaros Cathedral, is audible proof of a rich musical period.

One common characteristic of 18th century European Lutheran hymns was that the
Latin school choirs, lead singers and congregations often embellished the
choral melody with passing notes and heterophonic embellishments. Congregations
usually learned the hymns auditively, with the help of a lead singer or a
choir. The latter created individual ornaments which led to a mixture of
melodies and many local melodic variations. The metre of the various hymn book
texts was not always consistent with the melodic form, which further
complicated the singing. With the rise of rationalism and classicism in the
second half of the 18th century, systematic efforts were made to eliminate this
practice.

Towards the middle of the 19th Century, with the help of choirs, organs and
ringing lessons in schools, hymn-singing became more uniform in larger owns and
urban areas. For many years, music teacher Lars Roverud travelled round the
country introducing the authorised choral forms. He related that the local
peasants could spend three quarter of an hour singing their way through a
22-verse hymn. However, when he came to church with his trained boy sopranos to
teach the congregation more “modem” hymn-singing, the old “Kingo” singers
turned up to sing in their own way.

In rural areas the old traditions were kept alive in remote churches and by
individuals in their own homes. It is these choral variants that are now
regarded as religious folk music. When Ludvig Mathias Lindeman began to collect
religious folk music in the mid-19th century, he found different versions in
the various valleys. The Gudbrandsdalen valley, where pietism never gained a
foothold, was a rich source of hymns from the early baroque period. The Kingo
melodies from Valdres contain melismas and embellishments originating in the
descant practice of the Latin schools. In other areas were pietism had a
stronger influence, folk songs were characterised by aria-like and strophic
song forms. When modal folk songs were discovered at the beginning of the 19th
century, it was believed that these song traditions could be traced right back
to the Middle Ages.

In numerical terms, religious folk songs are the richest genre of Norwegian
vocal folk music. The most popular hymn-writers were Hans Adolph Brorson and
Petter Dass. Nearly one hundred melodic versions of the latter's hymn Herre
Gud, ditt dyre navn og  re (Lord God, thy wondrous Name and praise) have been
written down. The collection of religious folk music continued in the 20th
century, and many of the melodies were included in hymn books and have been a
continuous source of inspiration for composers of choral and organ music.

Ludvig Mathias Lindeman (1812-87) was the most significant figure in the 19th
Century. Through his father, he was exposed to the Bach tradition that was
still prevalent in Trondheim and he composed several organ works which bear
witness to a considerable knowledge of counterpoint. Nevertheless, Lindeman's
main importance was a choir book publisher and hymn composer. His melodies
became generally popular during his lifetime. Even today, the main church
festivals, Christmas, Easter and Whitsun are unthinkable without hymns such as
Et barn er f dt i Betlehem (A Child is Born in Bethlehem), P skemorgen slukker
sorgen (Easter Morning Quenches Grief) or Apostlene satt i Jerusalem (The
Apostles sat in Jerusalem).

Parallel with Lindeman's hymn reform, the missionary and revival movements
ensured that popular religious songs received impulses from England, America
and, in certain cases, Sweden. Spirituals and songs from the revivalist
movement had no place in the official church hymn books until our own times;
but nevertheless helped to inspire the joy in singing; and spiritual life of
the Norwegian nation.

The musical life of the Church was primarily linked to Church services. Church
concerts in the contemporary sense took place only in exceptional cases from
the second half of the eighteenth century onwards. One example is the annual
Passiontide concerts introduced by a musician from Holstein, Bendix Friedrich
Zinck, which were held in Christiania in the 1760s. Organ recitals took place
occasionally from the end of the 1780s. Best known and most “infamous” were the
organ recitals by Carl Maria von Weber's teacher, Abb  Vogler, in certain
Norwegian towns in the 1790s. The so-called ”spiritual” concert he gave in
Christiania Cathedral in 1794 has been quoted many times due to the
extraordinary programme. In addition to such exotic pieces as an Arabian
romance and an African allegro, the audience heard Bells in Fuga and a
programmatic rendering of cavorting shepherds interrupted by thunder. The main
element was a musical description of a sea battle “including the Alarm of
several Fleets clashing in Combat; War Music; the Movement of the Ships; the
stormy waves; the Thunder of the Canons; the Screams of the Dying; and the
Triumphal Song of the Victors”. At one of his concerts, Vogler played
self-composed variations on the Norwegian folk song Stusle sundagskv llen (Sad
Sunday Evening), and this was as the first time a composer used a Norwegian
folk song in serious music. In connection with a later series of variations on
the same melody, Vogler maintained that he had personally written it down “off
the coast of Greenland”.

Church concerts became more frequent during the 1800s. In 1829, Finnish soprano
Johanna von Schoultz gave several concerts in Christiania Cathedral, but her
Italian operatic arias by Mozart and Rossini aroused negative reactions. During
the rest of the 19th Century, there was continual conflict about whether or not
permission should be granted to hold concerts in churches. For certain periods,
even Passiontide concerts of Beethoven's Christus am  lberg and Mozart's
Requiem were relegated to the Great Hall of the Old Lodge.

“Experience has shown that the Use of the Churches, even for Organ concerts of
the purest religious Content, are not everywhere viewed with favourable Eyes by
the Congregations and the Ministry, when Access thereto for the Congregation is
not free, but must be paid for,” one newspaper wrote in 1867. Many ministers
believed that the concerts were not intended for the edification of the
congregation, but were of a purely temporal nature, to “create an Income for
the for the Musician concerned”. In this situation, perhaps it is not
surprising that so little church music was composed in the 19th Century.

National Romantic composers like Halfdan Kjerulf, Johan Svendsen and Edvard
Grieg showed little interest in church music. The wonderful arrangements of
religious folk songs by Grieg at the end of his life are nevertheless the most
significant church music created during the Romantic period. Due to the
limitations imposed by the Church on church music activities, there was no need
for full-time church musicians. Throughout the 19th Century, the organ was
mainly played by teachers who, thanks to the fact that training in organ and
harmonium was compulsory at the teacher training colleges, were able to combine
their roles with that of precentor and organist. When the official post of town
musician was discontinued in the 1840s, many towns and urban areas preferred to
employ organists who could also play for dances. In the second half of the l9th
Century, with the arrival of organists who specialised only in church music,
more versatile musicians were occasionally preferred, with the resulting bitter
conflicts.

Church musicians such as Otto Winter-Hjelm, Johannes Haarklou and Christian
Cappelen are among the best known church musicians of Griegs generation, hut
only with Arild Sandvold (1895-1984) did Norway acquire a church musician of
comparable stature to Ludvig Mathias Lindeman. As organist, conductor,
composer, teacher and organisation man, Arild Sandvold was a major pioneer of
Norwegian music. With his choirs, he performed more than 70 different
oratorios. He opened the way for Bach's music and ensured that Norwegian
contemporary music became well known in Norway and the Nordic countries. He
improved church music education and trained hundreds of organists who helped
church music to flourish all over the country. With his brilliant organ
playing, his concert tours and his conscientious work for the Norwegian Church,
Sandvold contributed more than anyone towards creating a general interest in
church music in Norway, and his Introduktion og Passacaglia for orgel is a
standard work in Norwegian organ literature.

In the first few years after the dissolution of the union with Sweden in 1905
and until World War II, church music was coloured by national sentiment and a
tendency toward, retrospective historicism, the 900th centenary of the death of
St. Olav (1930) and the first Nordic Bach festival (1921) being the most
important sources of inspiration. Oratorios such as Ludvig Irgens Jensen's
Heimferd, Arne Eggen's Kong Olav and Eivind Groven's Draumkvedet are typical
examples of the patriotic monumental style that predominated in the 1930s. With
a combination of national romantic harmonies and archaic styles, these
composers attempted to create a national Norse tonal language.

Fartein Valen's (1887-1952) atonal choral and organ works provide a strong
contrast to this movement, and many of his works were neither performed nor
appreciated until the breakthrough of modernism in the 1950s.

The re-discovery of Norwegian Gregorianism associated with the medieval
veneration of St. Olav and new interest in the ancient church modes in folk
music were concurrent with the rise of a European church music reform movement
which attempted to re-introduce Gregorian chants and Reformation chorales in
their original form into church services. With the re-discovery of Renaissance
vocal polyphony and pre-Bach organ music, church music became strongly
historicist and in many cases characterised by pastiche and stagnation. This
movement became even more popular in the 1950s when the Musica Sacra society
was established with a view to promoting and renewing Norwegian religious songs
and church music.

Church musicians were inspired by neo-classical composers such as Paul
Hindemith and Hugo Distler, and it was this style that was most popular. The
organ music of French composer Olivier Messiaen did not become known until
later.

Exercises in composition were a t compulsory part of church music studies
which, until the establishment of the Norwegian State Academy of Music,
provided the broadest, most comprehensive musical education in Norway. Church
musicians composed utility music, which might seem to indicate renewa1 and
development but was also adapted to the receptiveness of congregations. Apart
from certain larger choral and organ works, organ chorales and simple
evangelical motets dominated church music production in the 1950s. However, the
choral tradition was growing and, in time, well-trained organists and highly
qualified church choirs were able to tackle more advanced contemporary music.

While Ludvig Nielsen (1906) and Conrad Baden (1908-89) remained within the
neo-classical framework, Knut Nystedt (1915) and Egil Hovland (1924) attempted
to stay in the forefront of avant-gardism during its peak in the first half of
the 1960s. Nystedt used tone clusters in his choral work De profundis, while
Egil Hovland experimented with the organ itself. In the serial, aleatoric work
Elementa per organo, the sound spectrum is extended with the help of loose
organ pipes, wedged keys and untraditional methods of playing with the palms of
the hands and the elbows. In order to make modern musical expression more
understandable to audiences, Hovland combined his music with poetry, drama and
dance. In the organ suite Jobs bok (The Book of Job), the music is
programmatically linked to the reading of the biblical text, in the mass
Vigilate, the judgement motif is emphasised by dancers, and in the church opera
Brunnen, the whole church becomes a stage for song, music, theatre and dance.
Avant-garde music led to strong reactions from Norwegian congregations, and the
church concerts arranged by the Norwegian section of the ISCM in the 1960s led
to scandals, closed church doors and media headlines.

Christian pop and jazz music were accepted by Norwegian congregations towards
the end of the 1960s. In 1963, vicar Olaf Hillestad arranged the first
“rhythmic church service” in Bergen. Just like avant-garde music, this
engendered much conflict and debate, not least among church musicians. Inspired
by the Sing Out movement, in 1967 Kjell Gr nner started the Ten Sing movement,
which became an important factor in the youth work of the Church of Norway in
the 1970s.

During the following 25 years and up to the present day, the former battle
lines have relaxed considerably and it is interesting to see how musical trends
fluctuate in parallel in very different groups. In the field of serious music,
neo-romanticism came as a reaction to the Darmstadt School and serialism.
Mendelssohn, Reger and French organ romanticism regained their former prestige,
with consequences for the construction of new organs. Christmas carols,
Anglican hymns and romantic choral works found their way to Norway from
Britain. Among Christian youth groups, the neo-pietist Jesus revival came as a
reaction to political and socio-ethical protest songs, with their unilateral
emphasis on environmental pollution and social and political injustice.

The search for melodic simplicity and songs which appealed directly to the
emotions led to a new interest in 19th century revivalist melodies. With the
ecumenical movement came vocal material from the Third World, and with ethnic
music came a need to seek: out our own roots, which in time increased the
importance of Norwegian folk music as a source of inspiration for a wide
variety of genres.

Today, the breadth and diversity of musical activity in Norwegian churches has
become a mirror image of events in the rest of the country's musical life.
Within the framework of the church service, the music represents everything
from Gregorianism to avant-gardism, pop and rock. At church concerts, you can
hear everything from traditional motets, cantatas and oratorios to musicals,
jazz masses, church ballets, religious dramas and operas and so-called
crossover phenomena. The fact that a conflict arises every now and then about
the function and purpose of church music, about what is Christian, edifying
music, bears witness to the important role music plays in our human existence
not least when its purpose is to express our religious yearning.
                                                  Translation: Virginia Siger  
             Printed in the music magazine Listen to Norway, Vol.3 - 1995 No. 3

                                                  Notify a friend | Print story
                                                        | By: Harald Herresthal
                                                            Share the story on:
                                                                     |     More


Headlines:


New acquisitions from the National Library (sheet music)

MIC's catalogue MIC's catalogue
MIC-pages is managed by Aslak Oppeb en
Tel: +47 90175338   aslak@musicnorway.no
