bg image(http://www.vatican.va/img/sfondo.jpg)
The Holy See                                   *        Search
                                                  back
                                              riga
                       JOSEPH-MARIE CASSANT (1878-1903)

                                    photo

                                       

   

  Joseph-Marie Cassant was born on the 6th of March, 1878, at Casseneuil,
  Lot-et-Garonne, in the diocese of Agen, France, into a family of
  orchard-keepers. The second child born to the family, he had an elder
  brother already nine years of age. He was a lodger at the boarding school
  of the La Salle Brothers in Casseneuil itself, and it was there that his
  poor memory began to cause him difficulty in studying.

  He received a solid Christian education at home and at school, and little
  by little the deep desire to become a priest grew within him. Father
  Filhol, the parish priest, thought well enough of the boy to help him with
  his studies, but his weak memory kept him from entering the minor
  seminary. When it became clear that he was drawn towards silence,
  recollection and prayer, Fr. Filhol suggested that he would think of the
  Trappists, and the young sixteen-year-old unhesitatingly agreed. After a
  trial period, Joseph entered the Cistercian Abbey of Sainte-Marie du
  Désert, in the diocese of Toulouse, France, on December 5, 1894 .

  The Novice Master at the time was Fr. André Mallet, a man skilled at
  understanding the needs of souls and responding in love. From their very
  first meeting he showed this when he said to the young man, "Only trust
  and I will help you to love Jesus!" Nor were the other monks of the
  monastery slow to appreciate the newcomer: he neither argued nor grumbled
  but was ever happy, ever smiling.

  The young monk would often meditate upon Jesus in his Passion and on the
  Cross, and so became deeply imbued with love for Christ. The "way of
  Jesus' heart" which Fr. André taught him is an unceasing call to live the
  present moment with patience, hope and love. Brother Joseph-Marie was well
  aware of his lacks and weaknesses, and so was led to depend more and more
  on Jesus, his strength. He had no interest in half measures but wished to
  give himself completely to Christ. His personal motto bears witness to
  this: "All for Jesus, all through Mary". On Ascension Thursday, 24th May
  1900, he was admitted to final vows.

  Then came his preparation for the priesthood. This he viewed primarily in
  relation to the Eucharist, which was truly to him the living presence of
  Jesus among us. The Eucharist is the Savior himself, wholly giving himself
  to men; his Heart is pierced on the Cross and then tenderly gathers in all
  those who trust in him. There were times during his theological studies
  when, because of his great sensitivity, he suffered much from the lack of
  understanding of the monk teaching the course. But, as in all his
  contradictions, he relied upon Christ present in the Eucharist as his
* "only good upon this earth" and confided his suffering to Fr. André who
  would cheer him up and help him better to understand. In the end, he did
  well enough to pass his examinations and had the great joy of being
  ordained a priest on October 12, 1902.

  At that point it became clear that he had contracted tuberculosis and that
  the disease was already well advanced. The young priest spoke of his pains
  only when it was impossible to hide them further. How could he complain,
  he who meditated so lovingly on the Lord's Way of the Cross? In spite of a
  seven weeks' stay with his family which he undertook at his abbot's
  request, his health continued to deteriorate. He then returned to the
  monastery, where he was soon sent to stay in the infirmary. Here was one
  more opportunity to offer up his sufferings for Christ and the Church: his
  physical pain became more and more unbearable, and was even worsened by
  the infirmarian's neglect. Fr. André continued to accompany him and became
  more than ever his constant aid and support. He had said, "When I can no
  longer say Mass, Jesus can take me from this world." Early in the morning
  of the 17th of June 1903, Father Joseph-Marie received communion and left
  this world to be with Christ Jesus for ever.

  On the 9th of June 1984, the Holy Father, John Paul II, acknowledged his
  heroic virtues.

  The sheer ordinariness of his life has been noted by some: 16 quiet years
  at Casseneuil and 9 years of monastic enclosure spent in doing the
  simplest of things: prayer, studies, work. They are indeed simple things,
  but lived in an extraordinary way. They were the slightest of deeds, but
  performed with limitless generosity. Christ imbued his mind, clear as the
  water that leaps from a spring, with the conviction that God alone is our
  true and highest happiness and that his kingdom is like a hidden treasure
  or a pearl of great price.

  The message of Fr. Joseph-Marie has great meaning for us today. In a world
  filled with distrust and often with despair but thirsting for love and
  kindness, his life can provide an answer, and in a special way to today's
  young who seek meaning in their lives. Joseph-Marie was a youth without
  any standing or worth in the eyes of men. He owed the success of his life
  to a meeting with Jesus that redefined his very existence. He showed
  himself a follower of the Lord in the midst of a community of brothers,
  with the guidance of a spiritual father, who was to him a witness of
  Christ as well as one who knew to receive and to understand him.

  For the meek and humble he is a superb example. Watching Joseph-Marie, we
  learn how to live each day for Christ with love, zeal and fidelity,
  accepting at the same time the help of an experienced brother or sister
  who can lead us in the footsteps of Jesus.

                            Homily of John Paul II

   

                                     top
