[spartacus-]

Spartacus Educational

[]
  • British HistoryBritain
  • American HistoryUSA
  • The First World WarFirst World War
  • The Second World WarSecond World War
  • France
  • Germany
  • Russia
  • Football

  • Home
  • Index
  • Latest Additions
  • Resources
  • Author
  • Blog
  • Newsletter
  • News Online

  • Second World War  >
  • Resistance in Nazi Germany  >
  • Martin Niemo:ller

▼ Primary Sources ▼

Martin Niemo:ller

Martin Niemo:ller

Martin Niemo:ller, the son of a pastor, was born in Lippstadt, Germany, on 14th
January, 1892. At the age of eighteen Niemo:ller became an officer-cadet in the
German Navy. Niemo:ller was assigned to the training vessel Hertha and
eventually graduated to the battleship Thuringen.

By the time the  First World War began in 1914, Niemo:ller had reached the rank
of Sub-Lieutenant. It was decided that the Thuringen was too old and was
retired from active service. Niemo:ller was now assigned to a mine-laying
submarine (U73). This was followed by spells as an officer on the U39 and the
U151. In 1918 Niemo:ller took command of the UC67. Later that year he was
responsible for laying mines off Marseilles. This operation resulted in sinking
three enemy ships totalling 17,000 tons. By the end of the war Niemo:ller was
seen as one of Germany's most successful U-boat captains and was awarded the
Iron Cross (first class).

After the war Niemo:ller became active in German politics. Senior officers in
the German Army began raising private armies called Freikorps. These were used
to defend the German borders against the possibility of invasion from the Red
Army. Niemo:ller joined this group and took part in the attempt to stop a
socialist revolution taking place in Germany.

In March, 1919, General Franz Epp led 30,000 soldiers to crush the Bavarian
Socialist Republic. It is estimated that Epp's men killed over 600 communists
and socialists over the next few weeks. The following year Herman Ehrhardt, a
former naval commander and Wolfgang Kapp, a right-wing journalist, led a group
of soldiers to take control of Berlin. Niemo:ller supported this Kapp Putsch
and commanded a battalion of Freikorps in Munster. The right-wing coup was
eventually defeated by a general strike of trade unionists.

After the establishment of the Weimar Republic Niemo:ller decided to study
theology. He remained interested in politics and became a supporter Adolf
Hitler and in the 1924 elections voted for the Nazi Party. Even after he was
ordained in 1929 and became pastor of the Church of Jesus Christ at Dahlem he
remained an ardent supporter of Hitler. In 1931 Niemo:ller made speeches where
he argued that Germany needed a Fu:hrer.

In his sermons he also espoused Hitler's views on race and nationality. In 1933
he described the programme of the Nazi Party as a "renewal movement based on a
Christian moral foundation". The following year Niemo:ller published his
autobiography From U-Boat to Pulpit. This right-wing nationalist view of the
war and its aftermath made it a popular book with party members and sold 90,000
copies in the first few weeks after it was published.

In 1933 Niemo:ller complained about the decision by Adolf Hitler to appoint
Ludwig Muller, as the country's Reich Bishop of the Protestant Church. With the
support of Karl Barth, a professor of theology at Bonn University, in May,
1934, a group of rebel pastors formed what became known as the Confessional
Church.

When the Nazi government continued with this policy Niemo:ller joined with
Dietrich Bonhoffer to form the Pastors' Emergency League and published a major
document opposing the religious policies of Adolf Hitler. Niemo:ller was
particularly concerned by Hitler's decision that Jews should be expelled from
the Church. He argued that once Jews had been converted to Christianity they
should be allowed to remain in the Church. As Bonhoffer pointed out at the
time, although Niemo:ller was critical of Hitler he remained a committed
supporter of the Nazi Party. Niemo:ller was later to admit that his group
"acted as if we had only to sustain the church" and did not accept that they
had a "responsibility for the whole nation".

Niemo:ller therefore did not criticize the Nazi Party for putting its political
opponents into concentration camps. However, he spoke out when members of the
Protestant Church were arrested. In his sermon on Sunday 27th June 1937,
Niemo:ller pointed out that on: "On Wednesday the secret police penetrated the
closed church of Friedrich Werder and arrested at the altar eight members of
the Council of Brethren."

The following month Niemo:ller was himself arrested. He was held eight months
without trial and when his case eventually took place he was found guilty of
"abusing the pulpit" and was fined 2,000 marks. As he left the court he was
arrested by the Gestapo and sent to Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp to be
"re-educated". Niemo:ller refused to change his views and was later transferred
to Dachau.

George Bell, the Bishop of Chichester, took up Niemo:ller's case. He had a
series of letters published in the British press about the arrest and
imprisonment of Niemo:ller. Bell argued that Hitler's treatment of Niemo:ller
illustrated the attitude of the German state to Christianity. Bell's campaign
helped to save Niemo:ller's life. It was later discovered that in 1938 Joseph
Goebbels urged Adolf Hitler to have Niemo:ller executed. Alfred Rosenberg
argued against the idea as he believed it would provide an opportunity of
people like Bishop Bell to attack the German government. Hitler agreed and
Niemo:ller was allowed to live.

Niemo:ller remained a German nationalist and on the outbreak of the Second
World War he wrote to Admiral Erich Raeder offering to serve in the German Navy
. The letter was passed to Joseph Goebbels who dismissed the idea as he
believed it was an attempt by Niemo:ller to save his life. Goebbels now leaked
the latter to undermine Niemo:ller's credibility. Niemo:ller's supporters
retaliated by claiming the letter was a forgery. This version was believed and
Niemo:ller became a symbol in Britain of resistance in Nazi Germany.

While he was in Dachau his youngest daughter Jutta died of diphtheria. On 28th
February his eldest son was killed in battle in Pomerania. Another son was
captured by the Red Army while fighting on the Eastern Front.

In 1945, with the Allies moving in on Germany, Niemo:ller, Alexander von
Falkenhausen, Kurt von Schuschnigg, Leon Blum, and other political prisoners
were transferred to Tirol in Austria by the SS. The original plan was to
execute them but they were rescued by the Allies just before the end of the
Second World War.

On 5th June 1945 Niemo:ller gave a press conference in Naples. He admitted that
he had offered to join the German Navy in 1939. He also confessed that he had
"never quarrelled with Hitler over political matters, but purely on religious
grounds". This resulted in a savage attack on Niemo:ller from those newspapers
that had presented him as a symbol of resistance to Hitler's government. It was
now pointed out that Niemo:ller had never opposed the Nazi racial theories, but
merely the suppression of the Church in Germany.

When it was suggested that Niemo:ller wanted to visit Britain there was a
campaign to keep him out of the country. Tom O'Brien of the TUC General Council
wrote: "I sincerely hope he will not be allowed to come. If he is, it will be
the first overt move of the Germans to "organise sympathy", as they did so
successfully and so hypocritically after the last war. Niemo:ller commanded a
U-boat in the last war and, with his brother commanders, was responsible for
the drowning of many unarmed British merchant seamen. In this war he
volunteered to serve under Hitler. He was (and may now be) as nationalistic as
any of his congregation at the fashionable Berlin church to which he
ministered."

The Archdeacon of Lancaster claimed that "the pastor's visit at this time can
do nothing but harm". The Daily Telegraph pointed out that Niemo:ller should be
denied entry as there was "no record that he ever denounced Hitler's crimes
against humanity or condemned the war". The Home Secretary agreed and announced
that Niemo:ller would not be allowed to visit Britain.

After the war Niemo:ller became one of the leaders of the Evangelical Church in
Germany. After visiting the Soviet Union Niemo:ller joined the World Peace
Movement. On his return to Germany he pointed out: "I cannot accept communism,
but I must admit that its ideals are very different from ours, which are all
tangled up with the most sordid materialism." Niemo:ller wrote to his friend
Karl Barth explaining that he was gradually being converted to the idea of
socialism: "The corner-stone of my thinking is that the root of every evil
development is money." Later he wrote that " the rich must be smashed in order
to build human brotherhood."

Niemo:ller also spoke out against the development of the Cold War. In a speech
he made in New York he argued: "I am... against the often-heard statement that
a war against bolshevism is necessary to save the Christian churches and
Christianity. But it is unchristian to conduct a war for the saving of the
Christian church, for the Christian church does not need to be saved. The
church is not afraid of bolshevism. It was not afraid of Nazism. The church has
to serve the communists as well as all human beings. While the church rejects
communism as a creed, just as it rejects all other creeds, communism must and
can only be fought and defeated with spiritual weapons. All other powers will
fail."

Niemo:ller was a strong opponent of nuclear weapons. He thought the dropping of
the atom bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki was immoral. He upset the American
government when he stated that after Adolf Hitler, he thought that Harry S.
Truman "was the greatest murderer in the world."

In June 1954 Niemo:ller met Otto Hahn. The two men discussed the latest nuclear
developments. Niemo:ller was shocked when Hahn told him that it was now
possible to produce an atomic device that "would end not only all human life on
earth, but also the life of every higher organism." That night he re-read the
Sermon on the Mount and decided he could no longer justify the use of military
force for political ends and became a pacifist.

Niemo:ller praised the new Japanese Constitution: "The renunciation of war as
expressed in the Japanese Constitution has given a first ray of hope to a world
in darkness and despair." In April 1958 he travelled to England and took part
in the march to Aldermaston that had been organized by the recently formed
Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament. He also campaigned against military alliances
such as NATO.

Martin Niemo:ller Else and Martin Niemo:ller in 1961.

On 7th August, 1961 Niemo:ller was involved in a car crash. His wife, Else
Niemo:ller was killed but as soon as he recovered from his injuries he returned
to his campaign for world peace. He became an active member of the World Peace
Committee and was for seven years president of the World Council of Churches.
He also published a book on his political views entitled One World or No World
(1964).

In 1965 Niemo:ller upset the United States by visiting North Vietnam and
meeting Ho Chi Minh. Afterwards he commented: "One thing is clear, the
president of North Vietnam is not a fanatic. He is a very strong and determined
man, but capable of listening, something that is very rare in a person of his
position." Niemo:ller won several awards for his work for world peace including
the Lenin Peace Prize (1967) and the Grand Cross of Merit (1971). He married
his second wife, Sybil von Sell, in 1971.

Martin Niemo:ller Martin Niemo:ller, Linus Pauling and Sybil Niemo:ller in
1983.

On his 90th birthday in 1982 Niemo:ller stated that he had started his
political career as "an ultra-conservative who wanted the Kaiser to come back;
and now I am a revolutionary. I really mean that. If I live to be a hundred I
shall maybe be an anarchist." Martin Niemo:ller died in Wiesbaden, Germany, on
6th March, 1984.

Since his death Martin Niemo:ller has achieved a great deal of fame for a poem
entitled First they Came for the Communists. However, there is some dispute
about when Niemo:ller wrote the poem and whether it has been altered by others
over the years.

Niemo:ller's biographers, Dietmar Schmidt (1959) and James Bentley (1984) do
not mention the poem. When it appears in books the origins of the poem are
rarely given. A couple of sources claim that according to Niemo:ller s wife,
Sybil Niemo:ller, the poem dates back to a meeting with a group of students in
1946. One student asked:  How could it happen? The story claims that Niemo:ller
answered the question with the poem. The fact that Sybil Niemo:ller is quoted
as the source of the story suggests that the poem emerged after the death of
Martin Niemo:ller. This also helps to explain why it is not included in the
books by Dietmar Schmidt and James Bentley.

The impression is given that his wife was at the meeting. This may have been
true but that would have been Else Niemo:ller, his first wife. Else was killed
in a car crash in 1961. Martin Niemo:ller did not marry Sybil von Sell until
1971. She was only a child at the time and was obviously not at the meeting she
refers to in 1946. Research carried out by Harold Marcuse suggests that the
poem was indeed written in 1946.

(C) John Simkin, May 2013

By John Simkin (john@spartacus-educational.com) (C) September 1997 (updated
August 2014).
▲ Main Article ▲

Primary Sources

 

(1) Martin Niemo:ller, From U-boat to Pulpit (1934)

    The only thing we could not grow accustomed to was the fact that half the
    ship's company were sea-sick and the remainder had to clean up all day
    long.

(2) On 25th January 1918, Martin Niemo:ller's submarine sank a French
destroyer. A second destroyer arrived to pick up survivors. N decided to take
action to prevent this rescue mission to take place. He explained his motives
in his book, From U-boat to Pulpit (1934)

    What should we do? We have no wish to interrupt the destroyer's work of
    saving lives... But war is war and the people being picked up out of the
    water are soldiers bound for the front; soldiers who are to shoot at our
    German brothers... The question whether we are to perish in despair or
    defiance, or survive all trails with a live conscience, depends wholly and
    solely on whether we believe in the forgiveness of sins. This 25th January
    was the turning point in my life, because it opened my eyes to the utter
    impossibility of a moral universe.

(3) Martin Niemo:ller, sermon (1928)

    I cannot help saying quite harshly and bluntly that the Jewish people came
    to grief and disgrace because of its own  Positive Christianity! It (the
    Jewish people) bears a curse throughout the history of the world because it
    was ready to approve of its Messiah just as long and as far as it thought
    it could gain some advantage for its own plans and its own aims for Him,
    His words and His deeds. It bears a curse, because it rejected Him and
    resisted Him to the death when it became clear that Jesus of Nazareth would
    not cease calling (the Jews) to repentance and faith, despite their
    insistence that they were free, strong and proud men and belonged to a
    pure-blooded, race-concious nation!  Positive Christianity, which the
    Jewish people wanted, clashed with  Negative Christianity as Jesus himself
    represented it!... Friends, can we risk going with our nation without
    forgiveness of sins, without that so-called  Negative Christianity which,
    when all is said and done, clings in repentance and faith to Jesus as the
    Savior of sinners? I cannot and you cannot and our nation cannot!  Come let
    us return to the Lord! 

(4) Statement made by Martin Niemo:ller and fellow leaders of the Confessional
Church (July, 1936)

    Our people are trying to break the bond set by God. That is human conceit
    rising against God. In this connection we must warn the Fu:hrer, that the
    adoration frequently bestowed on him is only due to God. Some years ago the
    Fu:hrer objected to having his picture placed on Protestant altars. Today
    his thoughts are used as a basis not only for political decisions but also
    for morality and law. He himself is surrounded with the dignity of a priest
    and even of an intermediary between God and man... We ask that liberty be
    given to our people to go their way in the future under the sign of the
    Cross of Christ, in order that our grandsons may not curse their elders on
    the ground that their elders left them a state on earth that closed to them
    the Kingdom of God.

(5) Martin Niemo:ller, sermon (27th June, 1937)

    On Wednesday the secret police penetrated the closed church of Friedrich
    Werder and arrested at the altar eight members of the Council of Brethren.
    ... I think how yesterday at Saarbrucken six women and a trusted man of the
    Protestant community were arrested because they had circulated an election
    leaflet of the Confessing church. . . . And we recall today how the pulpit
    of St Anne's church remains empty, because our pastor and brother Muller,
    with forty-seven other Christian brothers and sisters of our Protestant
    church, has been taken into custody.

(6) Dr. Reinhard Becker, letter to Martin Niemo:ller (November, 1937)

    You suppose that Christianity is oppressed in Germany and that there is a
    rule by force and secret trial. Though this is not the case, the German
    State cannot be expected to tolerate incessant attacks, open or veiled, by
    ministers of the Christian faith upon its very foundations. There are
    recalcitrant pastors who seem to be unaware of the fact that they would
    have been shot, hanged or burned long ago if it had not been for the
    gigantic and successful struggle of Adolf Hitler to safeguard civilization
    in this country against the horrors of Communism. Therefore by attacking
    National Socialism, they are striking at themselves.

(7) William L. Shirer, The Rise and Fall of he Third Reich (1964)

    The Reverend Martin Niemoeller had personally welcomed the coming to power
    of the Nazis in 1933. In that year his autobiography, From U-boat to Pulpit
    , had been published. The story of how this submarine commander in the
    First World War had become a prominent Protestant pastor was singled out
    for special praise in the Nazi press and became a best seller. To Pastor
    Niemoeller, as to many a Protestant clergyman, the fourteen years of the
    Republic had been, as he said, "years of darkness'' and at the close of his
    autobiography he added a note of satisfaction that the Nazi revolution had
    finally triumphed and that it had brought about the "national revival" for
    which he himself had fought so long - for a time in the free corps, from
    which so many Nazi leaders had come.

(8) Albert Speer, Inside the Third Reich: The Memoirs of Albert Speer (1970)

    He (Hitler) had another such fit of rage at Pastor Niemo:ller in 1937.
    Niemo:ller had once again delivered a rebellious sermon in Dahlem [as had
    many other of the more evangelistic and conservative Lutheran Pastors and
    Priests]; at the same time transcripts of his tapped telephone
    conversations were presented to Hitler. In a bellow, Hitler ordered
    Niemo:ller to be put in a concentration camp and, since he had proven
    himself to be incorrigible, kept there for life. Pastors and Priests were
    then sent to camps for their dissidence and by 1938 the country had been
    declared free of the church.

(9) Martin Niemo:ller, letter to France Hildebrandt (1945)

    Towards evening that day we came upon a German divisional HQ, and some of
    the officers amongst us found that they were acquainted with officers
    there. Immediately they telephoned the German HQ. After a horrible night,
    during which two of us were posted on guard behind every SS man, German
    officers and soldiers came, put the execution squad in a truck and sent
    them on their way, guarded by machine guns. The Germans brought us to a
    hotel in Bergen, where we were very well fussed over and fed and looked
    after. That lasted three days, when one morning an American company
    arrived, disarmed the Germans and took us into their care.

(10) Martin Niemo:ller, statement at a press conference in Naples (5th June,
1945)

    No honest man or woman in Germany feels responsible for these things. Good
    Germans took Nazism as a new religion. These people are shocked by the
    revelations which have shown that Nazism was not idealism, but a means to
    the performance of criminal acts...In war a German feels bound to join the
    ranks without question. Three of my sons were called up. I could not hold
    back. I wrote from the concentration camp to Admiral Raeder, C. in C. of
    the Navy, asking to be allowed to return to the submarine service or to do
    any other service in the Navy. I heard nothing for several months, and then
    a reply came, not from Raeder but from Keitel, head of the Wehrmacht. He
    thanked me, but regretted I could not be employed on active service.

(11) Dietmar Schmidt, Pastor Niemo:ller (1959)

    During the next few years (after 1945) he was to attempt to explain from
    pulpit and platform to Evangelical Christians in all four Occupation Zones
    what the Stuttgart Declaration was, and was not, intended to convey. He
    called on the people to show a sense of responsibility towards their
    fellow-men, he abjured them not to forget the lessons of the past and,
    above all, he reminded them constantly of the burden of guilt which had to
    be redeemed before a new life could begin. In so doing he was at pains not
    to exclude himself from a like responsibility, and told in this connexion
    the story of the visit which he and his wife paid to Dachau in the autumn
    of 1945. "After showing her the cell in which he had been confined for so
    many months, they passed the crematorium. A great white-painted board had
    been affixed to a tree and on it, in black letters, they read: "Here
    between the years 1933 and 1945 238,756 human beings were incinerated." At
    that moment, Niemoller told his audience, the consciousness of his own
    guilt and his own failure assailed him as never before. "And God asked me -
    as once He asked the First Man after the Fall, Adam - Man, where wast thou
    in those years 1933 to 1945? I knew I had no answer to that question. True,
    I had an alibi in my pocket, for the years 1937 to 1945, my identity disc
    from the concentration camp. But what help to me was that? God was not
    asking me where I had been from 1937 to 1945, but from 1933 to 1945, and
    for the years 1933 to 1937 I had no answer. Should I have said perhaps: 'As
    a pastor in those years I bore courageous witness to the Faith; I dared to
    speak, an'd risked life and freedom in doing so?' But God did not ask about
    that. God asked: 'Where were you from 1933 to 1945 when human beings were
    incinerated here? When, in 1933, Goering publicly boasted that all active
    Communists had been imprisoned and rendered harmless - that was when we
    forgot our responsibility, that was when we should have warned our
    parishioners. Many a man from my own parish, who went and joined the
    National Socialist Party and who is now to do penance for his act, could
    rise up against me today and say that he would have acted differently if I
    had not kept silence at that time. ... I know that I made my contribution
    towards the enslavement of the German people."

(12) Dorothy Thompson, The Observer (June, 1945)

    He is a man from whom fear has forever flown. Boyishly slim, wiry, nervous
    but disciplined, he is full of simplicity and humility. His brown eyes look
    steadily at you as he speaks, and when he smiles his face lights up with
    kindness and peace.

(13) Tom O'Brien, TUC General Council (1945)

    I sincerely hope he will not be allowed to come. If he is, it will be the
    first overt move of the Germans to "organise sympathy", as they did so
    successfully and so hypocritically after the last war. Niemoller commanded
    a U-boat in the last war and, with his brother commanders, was responsible
    for the drowning of many unarmed British merchant seamen. In this war he
    volunteered to serve under Hitler. He was (and may now be) as nationalistic
    as any of his congregation at the fashionable Berlin church to which he
    ministered.

(14) William Hickey, Daily Express (1945)

    The admiration expressed by some people for this vigorous critic of Hitler
    who has spent eight years in a concentration camp, is offset by others who
    are wholly allergic to the idea of any "good" Germans, and recall with some
    venom Niemoller's first-war role of U-boat commander.

(15) Archdeacon of Lancaster, The Daily Telegraph (31st May, 1946)

    In my opinion the pastor's visit at this time can do nothing but harm, for
    the one thing needful is to present a united front to the German people,
    and to demand proofs of repentance from the whole nation before we can
    enter into any fraternal relationships.

(16) Martin Niemo:ller, sermon (January, 1946)

    We must openly declare that we are not innocent of the Nazi murders, of the
    murder of German communists, Poles, Jews, and the people in German-occupied
    countries. No doubt others made mistakes too, but the wave of crime started
    here and here it reached its highest peak. The guilt exists, there is no
    doubt about that - even if there were no other guilt than that of the six
    million clay urns containing the ashes of incinerated Jews from all over
    Europe. And this guilt lies heavily upon the German people and the German
    name, even upon Christendom. For in our world and in our name have these
    things been done.

(17) Martin Niemo:ller, sermon at Rendsburgh Church (23rd September, 1946)

    If we had then recognized that in the communists who were thrown into
    concentration camps, the Lord Jesus Christ himself lay imprisoned and
    looked for our love and help, if we had seen that at the beginning of the
    persecution of the Jews it was the Lord Christ in the person of the least
    of our human brethren who was being persecuted and beaten and killed, if we
    had stood by him and identified ourselves with him, I do not know whether
    God would not then have stood by us and whether the whole thing would not
    then have had to take a different course.

(18) Martin Niemo:ller, speech in New York (1947)

    To reproaches that I have described Russian occupation (of East Germany) as
    bearable, I say: I am only against the often-heard statement that a war
    against bolshevism is necessary to save the Christian churches and
    Christianity. But it is unchristian to conduct a war for the saving of the
    Christian church, for the Christian church does not need to be saved. The
    church is not afraid of bolshevism. It was not afraid of Nazism. The church
    has to serve the communists as well as all human beings. While the church
    rejects communism as a creed, just as it rejects all other creeds,
    communism must and can only be fought and defeated with spiritual weapons.
    All other powers will fail.

(19) Martin Niemo:ller, letter to Dr. Alfred Wiener (1956)

    I have never concealed the fact... that I came from an anti-Semitic past
    and tradition... I ask only that you look at my life historically and take
    it as history. I believe that from 1933 I truly represented the
    Lutheran-Christian outlook on the Jewish question - as I revealed before
    the court - but that I returned home after eight years' imprisonment as a
    completely different person.

(20) Martin Niemo:ller, speech (1982)

    I am now convinced that the Reformation of the church will come from the
    east. In the west there is no spiritual life. (I'm speaking of the
    Protestant church and not the Roman Catholic church.) We have civilisation
    and we try to keep up culture, but we have no spiritual life. The east has
    a spiritual life. They know that colour influences the spirit more than
    black lines. In Russia there is still the notion that art is nearer
    religion than thinking in lines and logic. All abstract rationalising needs
    to be filled out with sensual thinking and feelings. In Russia there is
    still a strong impression of colour.

(21) Poem by Martin Niemo:ller that was said to have been written in 1946.

    First they came for the communists, and I did not speak out - because I was
    not a communist;

    Then they came for the socialists, and I did not speak out - because I was
    not a socialist;

    Then they came for the trade unionists, and I did not speak out - because I
    was not a trade unionist;

    Then they came for the Jews, and I did not speak out - because I was not a
    Jew;

    Then they came for me - and there was no one left to speak out for me.

(22) Franklin H. Littell, Christian Ethics Today (February, 1997)

    After the war, active in international church affairs, he (Martin
    Niemo:ller) made preaching trips across the United States. At that time he
    brought the message of concern for others, often driving the point home
    with a confession of his own blindness when the Nazi regime rounded up the
    communists, socialists, trade unionists, and, finally, the Jews. The
    quotation is now famous, but often in corrupted form. In a recent bulletin
    of the Social Studies School Service, a 23" by 161/2" poster is advertised
    for $4.95. It begins, "First they came for the Jews...." A beautiful new
    folder from Yad Vashem, featuring "The World Center for Teaching the
    SHOAH," has the Niemoeller statement on page 2 as the banner opening; it
    uses the same corrupted form.

    An educational video on skinheads and other racist extremists, produced by
    Jansen Associates, jumbles the sequence of Niemoeller's warning and adds
    "then they came for the Roman Catholics, and I didn't protest...."In other
    freely invented materials, we read "Then they came for the gays, and I
    didn't protest...." The latter corruption of the text was never seen by
    Niemoller: he died before homosexual exhibitionism became a public
    spectacle. But when we asked him years ago about the addition of the Roman
    Catholics, he said, "I never said it. They can take care of themselves."
    (Not particularly friendly, perhaps, remembered today in the modern climate
    of Catholic/ Protestant rapprochement; but the report has the virtue of
    telling the truth.) When asked about the re-arranged order, "First they
    came for the Jews...," he simply laughed and passed it off.

    There is a more than pedantic point to insisting that the Niemoeller
    quotation be truthfully used, if at all. Through the texts corrupted to
    promote special interests, literally millions of school children and also
    adults are being taught lies about the Holocaust. The damage is not as
    serious, perhaps, as the steady infiltration of "Holocaust revision" (i.e.,
    denial). But it does help to create an atmosphere of playing fast and loose
    with the facts through intellectually dishonest and self-serving
    manipulation of the text. Niemoeller knew the sequence of Nazi assault,
    because he was there. Any average student of the third Reich should be able
    to give the record accurately; it is a shocking display of professional
    incompetence when materials that are supposed to be vetted by specialists
    can be issued that are simply contrary to the record. Even if a corrupt
    text appears in print, whether published by an ignoramus or a special
    pleasure, the literate reader should catch the mistake. As Martin
    Niemoeller gave the message, it was true to the facts. "They" didn't "come
    for the Catholics" any more than "they" came for the Protestants. The true
    historical sequence, which Niemoeller of course followed, was communists,
    socialists, trade unionists, and Jews. The assault on the Jews was the
    culmination of the Nazi dictatorship's ruthless elimination of targeted
    communities and individuals.

(23) D. D. Guttenplan, The Guardian, (15th April, 2000)

    The Nazis did not come first for the Jews, as Peter Novick explains in his
    brilliant and provocative new book, The Holocaust in American Life, "First
    they came for the Communists" - a circumstance acknowledged by Niemo:ller,
    who continued, "but I was not a Communist - so I said nothing. Then they
    came for the Social Democrats, but I was not a Social Democrat - so I did
    nothing. Then came the trade unionists, but I was not a trade unionist. And
    then they came for the Jews, but I was not a Jew - so I did little. Then
    when they came for me, there was no one left who could stand up for me."
    The Holocaust Museum in Washington DC is just one of those who, in Novick's
    phrase "prudently omits" Communists from Niemo:ller's homily.

(24) Red Action, Volume 4, Issue 7 (June/July 2000)

    Put simply, the notion of ethnic slaughter for it s own sake, precisely
    because it appears inexplicable, is constantly played up not out any sense
    of guilt, or out of a loyalty to Israel, but because its serves to conceal
    the culpability of liberal democracy in the chain of events.

    For instance in the USA scores of cities have Holocaust museums, the
    Holocaust is on the curriculum of thousands of schools, Holocaust films and
    books, TV series and articles are a staple of American culture. And what
    are they taught? Of all the  lessons of the Holocaust, Pastor Martin
    Niemoller s litany of indifference, and of his own complicity in the
    escalating brutality of life in Nazi Germany is most used.  First they came
    for the Jews, but I was not a Jew... is one of the things everybody  knows 
    about the Holocaust. Except its not true.Oh, its not that the good pastor
    is guilty of telling a porky; no, the original version begins  First they
    came for the Communists, but I was not a Communist so I said nothing. Then
    they came for the Social Democrats but I was not a Social Democrat -so I
    did nothing. Then came the trade unionists but I was not a trade unionist.
    And then the came for the Jews but I was not a Jew - so I did little. Then
    when they came for me there was no one who could stand up for me. 

    As author Peter Novick explains in his widely acclaimed new book The
    Holocaust in American Life, the Holocaust Museum in Washington DC is one of
    many, who in Novick s phrase,  prudently omits Communists from Niemoller s
    homily. When Time magazine quoted Niemoller, they moved the Jews into first
    place, and dropped the Communists and Social Democrats entirely.

    President elect Al Gore dropped the trade unionists for good measure, and
    substituted, along with Time magazine, and a speaker at the 1992 Republican
    convention,  Catholics who hadn t featured in Niemoller s account at all.
    Other versions have added homosexuals, while the US Holocaust Museum, while
    deleting Communists, retains Social Democrats.

[Search]
Subscribe to our Spartacus Newsletter and keep up to date with the latest
articles.

 
Follow @JohnSimkin on Twitter
Spartacus on Facebook
Spartacus Google+ Circles
Spartacus eBooks
Related Reading

Martin Niemo:ller

Martin Niemo:ller

Related Reading

Martin Niemo:ller

Martin Niemo:ller

  • First World War
  • Second World War
  • The Tudors
  • British History
  • Vietnam War
  • Military History
  • Watergate
  • Assassination of JFK
  • Assocation Football
  • Normans
  • American West
  • Famous Crimes
  • Black People in Britain
  • The Monarchy
  • Blitz
  • United States
  • Cold War
  • English Civil War
  • Making of the United Kingdom
  • Russia
  • Germany
  • The Medieval World
  • Nazi Germany
  • American Civil War
  • Spanish Civil War
  • Civil Rights Movement
  • McCarthyism
  • Slavery
  • Child Labour
  • Women's Suffrage
  • Parliamentary Reform
  • Railways
  • Trade Unions
  • Textile Industry
  • Russian Revolution
  • Travel Guide
  • Spartacus Blog
  • Winston Churchill
  • John F. Kennedy
  • Lyndon B. Johnson
  • Robert F. Kennedy
  • Queen Victoria
  • J. Edgar Hoove
  • Ku Klux Klan
  • Martin Luther King
  • Adolf Hitler
  • Joseph Stalin
  • Jim Crow Laws
  • Benito Mussolini
  • Franklin D. Roosevelt
  • Abraham Lincoln
  • Lee Harvey Oswald

    (C) 1997-2015 Spartacus Educational Publishers Ltd.
  • Privacy Statement
  • Advertising
  • News Online

    Written by John Simkin
  • About
  • Blog
  • Newsletter

    Web Developer: Peter McMillan
  • Contact

