Exiled Preacher

Displaced fragments: theology, ministry, interviews and reviews

Pages

  • Home
  • About Me
  • Contact

●

Monday, January 11, 2016

Anglican Primates' conference: the church militant or muddled?


[welby]
There's nothing that draws the attention of the media to church-related matters
so much as stories involving splits and sex. A story featuring both factors in
one is the religious affairs correspondents' equivalent of the Holy Grail. As
ever, our dear old Church of England is happy to oblige. This week Justin Welby
has convened an Anglican Primates' meeting at Canterbury with the hope of
holding the fractured communion together. The issue that threatens to divide
global Anglicanism is, of course, homosexuality. 

Cue calls issued by the Liberal wing for the church to repent over its
treatment of gays. While Evangelicals warn, "Everywhere we see the danger of
Christians committed to a gospel without salvation, reconciliation without
repentance, a Saviour without a cross and a Lord without a word." 

This being the Church of England with its habit of muddling through crisis
after crisis, conciliatory voices are hoping that the grand assemblage of
Primates will find some way of agreeing to disagree. Apparently, church needs
both the Liberals with their 'love for people' thing and the Evangelicals with
their 'love for doctrine' thing. 

After all, writes David Ilson, Dean of St. Paul's, "The Church is not a body
defined by rules and dogmas, but a fellowship of diverse people joined together
by faithfulness to following Jesus Christ." OK, but it is pretty hard to know
what faithfulness to following Jesus Christ looks like without at least a 
smidgen of agreed dogma concerning his identity and the purpose of his work. If
there is no doctrinal agreement on who Jesus is and what he came to do, there
can be no grounds for meaningful fellowship. Is Jesus the Son of God incarnate
who came to save the world from sin? Or was he a very nice, spiritual sort of
fellow who taught a kindly message of inclusion and tolerance? 

Faithfulness to following the 'Evangelical Jesus' will look quite different to
following your 'Liberal Jesus'. The question of which is the authentic Christ
of the New Testament brings us back to doctrinal matters and we can't go there
because 'doctrine divides', and the main thing is to hold the CofE together
come what may. That's the case even though its various 'wings' fundamentally
disagree on what constitutes the gospel, consequently what constitutes
a Christian, and what therefore constitutes the church. 

Not being an Anglican I don't have a dog in this particular fight. The nearest
I've got to any primates lately was spotting an elderly silverback gorilla when
visiting Longleat Safari Park. But this story does raise some interesting
questions. Even for a Baptist. The first is, what on earth are Evangelicals
still doing in the CofE, and is there anything that would prompt them to break
with Canterbury en masse?

The Liberal ascendancy in the 1980s didn't do it, with David Jenkins describing
the bodily resurrection of Jesus as 'a conjuring trick with a bag of bones'.
Womens' ordination was meant to be the tipping point, and then female Bishops.
Tipping points come and go, biblical authority is flouted, historic church
teachings are jettisoned, but Evangelical Anglicans don't seem to be able to to
let go of Mother Anglican's apron strings. 

And now this. Will the acceptance of active homosexuals as Ministers of the
Church finally tip Evangelical Anglicans over the edge? I dunno. Given the
precedents, what do you reckon? Some may say that Christian teaching on
sexuality isn't a core doctrinal issue anyway. In a sense that's right. What
Scripture says about sex in general and same sex relationships in particular
isn't up there with gospel-defining truths such as the doctrine of the Trinity,
the incarnation of Christ, his sin-atoning death and bodily resurrection etc.
Why should Evangelicals leave the CofE over a second order issue? 

Which brings us to another question, what's the relationship between church and
culture when it comes to deciding what Christians should believe and do? In
this case, does God as Creator have the right to order the form of our human
relationships, and has he deigned to reveal that form to us? Most Christians
would say, 'yes' and 'yes'. If the the Holy Spirit speaking in Scripture rather
than fashionable opinion is to function as the ultimate authority in the
church, then it is clear that male-female marriage is only legitimate context
for sexual intimacy. That's it. Period. If anything Jesus tightened things up
on that point, jettisoning the Old Testament's rather lax approach to polygamy
and divorce, Matthew 19:3-6. When the apostles of Christ were confronted with
same sex relations in Gentile culture of their day they made it clear that such
behaviour was not acceptable for Christians.

The church is called to follow the teaching of Scripture as an expression of
her submission to the lordship of Christ. If he is our Lord and Head, we cannot
simply ignore or reject those bits of the Bible that might be upsetting 
Guardian readers. In 1930's Germany the church was being pressurised to conform
to the culture. By way of response the confessing church drew up the Barmen
Declaration, which included the points:

    8.11 Jesus Christ, as he is attested for us in Holy Scripture, is the one
    Word of God which we have to hear and which we have to trust and obey in
    life and in death. 

    8.12 We reject the false doctrine, as though the church could and would
    have to acknowledge as a source of its proclamation, apart from and besides
    this one Word of God, still other events and powers, figures and truths, as
    God's revelation.

What is at stake here is the church's loyalty to Christ's revealed will. It is
not our calling to conform to the world and it's patterns of thought, but to
confront the world with the challenge of the gospel. When contemporary church
leaders suggest that we should listen to what the Holy Spirit is saying to the
church on the issue of same sex relations and then we hear them simply
reaffirming fashionable liberal opinion on the matter, we know that they have
well and truly lost the plot. In that case, apart from the clergy decked out in
fancy dress and a few rituals, what's the difference between the 'church' and
the world?  We have no other source of revelation besides the Word of God. And
if any teaching of the Word of God is subject to sustained attack, the task of
the church is not to surrender, but stand and fight. As Martin Luther put it, 

    If I profess, with the loudest voice and the clearest exposition, every
    portion of the truth of God except precisely that little point which the
    world and the devil are at that moment attacking, I am not confessing
    Christ, however boldly I may be professing Christianity. Where the battle
    rages the loyalty of the soldier is proved; and to be steady on all the
    battle-field besides is mere flight and disgrace to him if he flinches at
    that one point.

For how much longer can Evangelicals remain in the forever flinching Church of
England? Less the church militant and more the church muddled. 

And yet, one final question needs to be faced. Has the church always treated
people who feel same sex attraction with the respect and love that is their due
as human beings made in the image of God? The call to repent referred to above
is not altogether misplaced. The conservative position of Nigerian church
leaders would be all the more credible if they campaigned against the
demonisation and criminalisation of gay people in their own land. The cry of
the church should not be, 'lock 'em up', but 'Christ came into the world to
save sinners', whatever their race, gender, background or sexual orientation.
That was certainly the gospel-centred approach of the apostles, 1 Corinthians
6:9-11. Christians wrestling with same sex attraction should be treated with
great pastoral sensitivity and offered the love and support of the church. It
is good to note that UK Evangelicals are now beginning to adopt a much more
caring and thoughtful approach, see here. 

This is not a matter of the church needing both Liberals with their 'love for
people' and Evangelicals with their 'love for doctrine' to deal with this
matter in an appropriately balanced manner. Framing it like that is just an
ecclesio-political way of papering over gaping wide theological chasms. Rather,
the church's witness must forever be characterised by costly compassion, 
'speaking the truth [however unpopular] in love [extended to all people
without exception]', Ephesians 4:15. Christ our Lord demands nothing less.
We'll have to wait and see to discover what the Primates have to say, and then
what Evangelical Anglicans do by way of response. 
Posted by Guy Davies at 8:18 am 2 comments: Links to this post ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Church of England, Sexuality

Wednesday, January 06, 2016

The Star of Bethlehem by Stuart Burgess

[56126bd0a0c75-burgess_star_]
The Star of Bethlehem: Lessons for Today,
Stuart Burgess, Day One Publications, 2015, 62pp

In this little book Professor Stuart Burgess aims at unpacking the message of
the star of Bethlehem. That special sign in the heavens that led the wise men
of Matthew 2 from the East to Jerusalem, seeking the King of the Jews. And then
from Jerusalem to the very place in Bethlehem where Mary, Joseph and the infant
Jesus could be found. 

The book is simply written and is designed to help people who are seeking Jesus
today to find him and experience his saving power. It also serves to remind
believers of the wonder of Christ's coming into the world as man, and what that
means for us.

Burgess worked on the Hubble Space Telescope that has beamed back to earth some
amazing images of the universe and has an abiding interest astronomy. He sees
the star of Bethlehem as a supernatural phenomenon that was specially sent by
God to guide the wise men to Jesus. The writer unfolds the narrative of Matthew
2 in a simple and easy to grasp way that draws the reader in, making telling
points of application along the way. 

If I had a criticism of the book it would be that Burgess somewhat confusingly
chops and changes between reflecting on the star of Bethlehem and describing
Jesus as a star in his chapter headings. While that is an entirely appropriate
biblical designation for Jesus, it can be a little confusing when 'A guiding
star' of one chapter heading, meaning the star seen by the wise men becomes, 'A
star of grace' and 'A hated star', meaning Jesus in other chapters. 

But that said, this is an engaging little work that will encourage people to
seek the only true Star, Jesus Christ, to whom the star of Bethlehem once
pointed.

The book is dedicated to Hannah Stone, a young woman in our Providence
congregation who was suffering from seemingly terminal lymphoma cancer, but in
the goodness of God was recently given the all clear. 
Posted by Guy Davies at 5:06 pm No comments: Links to this post ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Book Review, Stuart Burgess

Sunday, December 27, 2015

Christmas past

[DSC_1107]

So that was it, then. Another Christmas over and done with. As ever the build
up was a whirl of services, shopping, gift wrapping and card writing in
preparation for the Big Day. We had encouraging numbers at our Carol Service on
the Sunday before Christmas and the Christmas Morning Service was also well
attended. 

For pressies I mostly had clothes and books. My ageing Mod midlife crisis thing
continues with the gift of a Ben Sherman polka dot button down shirt. I'm
looking forward to getting stuck onto Ralph Cunnington's Preaching with
Spiritual Power. I may not agree with everything he has to say, but it's good
to have one's views challenged. Flicking through I note that he references an
article on this blog, so it can't be all bad.  

We look forward to catching up with family in London and Wales later this
week. 

[DSC_1106]
Posted by Guy Davies at 10:39 pm No comments: Links to this post ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Christmas

Tuesday, December 22, 2015

Something extra for Christmas

[Jesus-Stable]
Once in our world, a stable had something in it 
that was bigger than our whole world.
C. S. Lewis. 

We won't get hung up on whether our Lord was born in a stable as opposed to a
lower room in the house where animals were often brought in for the night
because the 'inn', meaning guest room was occupied. What I'm interested in here
is Lewis's theological insight that Jesus was at one and the same time inside
the 'stable' and bigger than the whole world in which the stable was set. He
is emphasising that Jesus became what we was not [Man] without ceasing to be
what he was [God]. He is Immanuel; God with us as one of us. 

This is sometimes referred to as Calvin's extra. Although it can easily be
shown that in teaching this the Reformer did not in fact add anything extra to
the church's understanding of the person of Christ. His thinking was in line
with historic orthodoxy. In his chapter devoted to 'The Extra' in John Calvin's
Ideas, (Oxford, 2004) Paul Helm cites E. David Willis's view that the extra
Calvinisticum could well be called the extra Catholicum. 

Why is this important other than to historical theologians? Because in seeking
to understand and proclaim the incarnation of Christ we need to ensure that we
give due weight to the Son's divine and human natures. If in becoming man he
became less than God, Jesus was not the full and final revelation of God and
his sacrificial death is divested of its infinite sin-atoning value. John 1:18
and 1:29 make little sense if when the 'Word became flesh' (John 1:14) he
ceased to be the Word. Calvin expressed it like this:

    Another absurdity which they obtrude upon us, viz., that if the Word of God
    became incarnate, it must have been enclosed in the narrow tenement of an
    earthly body, is sheer petulance. For although the boundless essence of the
    Word was united with human nature into one person, we have no idea of any
    enclosing. The Son of God descended miraculously from heaven, yet without
    abandoning heaven; was pleased to be conceived miraculously in the Virgin’s
    womb, to live on the earth, and hang upon the cross, and yet always filled
    the world as from the beginning. Calvin, J. (1997). Institutes of the
    Christian Religion II:xiii.4. Bellingham, WA: Logos Bible Software.

This bears a striking similarity to a statement by Augustine in his Letter to
Volusian:

    And we think that something is impossible to believe is told us about the
    omnipotence of God, when we are told that the Word of God, by whom all
    things were made, took flesh from a virgin and appeared to mortal senses
    without destroying His immortality, or infringing His eternity, or
    diminishing His power, or neglecting the government of the world, or
    leaving the bosom of the Father, where He is intimately with Him and in
    Him. (Cited in John Calvin's Ideas, Helm, p. 59)

Source critics argue that Calvin was familiar with Augustine's letter and his
words in the Institutes quoted above bear the imprint of the Church Father's
influence. But what of the fact that Scripture speaks of the Son being given
[as a man] John 3:16, or that the Son was born of a woman Galatians 4:4.? Does
that not suggest that the Son became man and nothing else at the incarnation?
No. Calvin drew upon the notion of the 'communion of attributes' to help
explain why the Bible designates human properties to the divine Son. This lays
down that aspects of one or the other nature (divine or human) may be
predicated to the whole person of Christ. In so doing both the unity of
Christ's person and the integrity of his divine and human natures are
preserved. 

According to the witness of Scripture Son was not only 'born of woman', he also
'gave himself for us' at Calvary, Galatians 2:20. How could the eternal Son
begin to be, and the immortal One die? In his divine nature he could not do
either of those things. But in the incarnate Christ we have the person of the
Son with divine and human natures. The Son was born and died for us in his
humanity. But we do not hold that the human nature of the Son gave itself for
us, but that the Son died in our place in his human nature. That which may only
be predicated of Christ's human nature is attributed to his person as the Son
because what he did through his human nature was a personal act on our behalf.
Calvin's careful use of the 'communion of attributes' doctrine is in line with
Chaldeconian 'one person/two natures' Christology and helps us understand the
way in which the New Testament describes the work of the incarnate Son of God. 

May I conclude with a plea for extra worship? Loose theological talk continues
to find its way into our hymns that sing to Jesus, 'You laid aside your
majesty', or 'you left your throne and kingly crown'. The idea here is of
divestment of glory and abandonment of sovereignty. But that is not what
happened at the incarnation. John tells us 'the Word was made flesh and we
beheld his glory'. The government of the world was not neglected when the Son
was born of a virgin in Bethlehem. Jesus continued to 'uphold all things by the
word of his power' (Hebrews 1:13) even as he was cradled in Mary's arms. The
Son's aseity (that he exists in and from himself and all things that exist are
from him and depend upon him) was not compromised when he became a weak and
vulnerable baby in need of his mother's milk. The language of some of our hymns
(and sermons?) goes beyond what might be said under the heading of
the 'communion of attributes'. For while the Son was born and died, we are not
told in the New Testament that he laid aside any aspect of his divine being, or
that he stepped down from the throne of the universe when he became man. 

The finite cannot enclose the infinite, even in the incarnate Christ. Lewis
understood this, 'Once in our world, a stable had something in it that was
bigger than our whole world.' 

O come, let us adore him, 
Christ, the Lord.
Posted by Guy Davies at 10:13 am 2 comments: Links to this post ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Christmas, Christology

Tuesday, December 08, 2015

Why should any Church of England Bishops sit in the House of Lords?

Image result for westminster abbey parliament

A recently produced report, LIVING WITH DIFFERENCE community, diversity and the
common good argued, "The pluralist character of modern society should be
reflected in national forums such as the House of Lords,so that they include a
wider range of worldviews and religious traditions, and of Christian
denominations other than the Church of England". The thrust of the report is
that Britain is no longer a 'Christian country' and that should be reflected in
the worlds of politics, society and education. I would venture to suggest that
the report does not go far enough when it comes to Church of England Bishops
taking ex-officio seats in the House of Lords. The fact that they do is a
reminder that the Church of England is the Established Church of this part of
the United Kingdom. That is why the position of the Archbishop of Canterbury is
not quite the same as pastor of an independent evangelical Church. He is
appointed to office by the Prime Minister of this country, under the authority
of Her Majesty the Queen, who is the Supreme Governor of the Church of England.
The integral link between Church and State in our constitution explains why
Anglican Bishops sit in the House of Lords where they have the authority to
scrutinise and amend Government legislation.

In effect the Church of England is the religious arm of the State. This is a
throwback to the Reformation under Henry VIII. The king divided from the Rome
because the Pope would not sanction his divorce from Catherine of Aragorn. He
quickly installed himself as Supreme Governor of the English Church, which
remained largely Catholic in its structure and teaching under his reign.
Archbishop Cranmer slowly nudged the Church of England in the direction of
Protestantism, with huge strides being made under Edward VI. Then came the
backlash Catholic under Queen Mary, followed by the the stabilising reign of
Elizabeth I. And so the Church has remained unchanged, the established
Protestant Church of England (apart from the experiment with Presbyterianism
during the Commonwealth period). In some ways, Anglicanism is a strange beast,
with its Roman Catholic-style Episcopal government and Protestant 39 Articles.
The Church finds itself stuck in an historic compromise between Rome and
Geneva, with its leaders appointed by a democratically elected Prime Minister.

We could go back even further and discuss the alliance of Church and State
under Constantine and the development of Christendom, but let's not go there.
The question is, 'Should the Church of England remain Established?' I would
argue that it should not, because the idea of an established Church is alien to
the New Testament. Under the old covenant there was no distinction between the
religious and civil aspects of Israel's life. The nation was a theocracy -
God's chosen nation, living under the terms of his covenant. But all that
changed under the new covenant. Now the people of God are gathered from all
nations. The Church may be a theocracy under the lordship of Christ, but she is
distinct from the State.

Church and State are two very different institutions. The State has been
ordained by God to restrain evil and preserve peace and order in society
(Romans 13:1-7). But the Church has been called to carry out her Great
Commission to preach the gospel and make disciples for Christ from all peoples.
The State may use force to subdue law breakers and protect its citizens. The
Church's only weapon is the sword of the Spirit, the word of God. State
establishment obscures the Church's unique gospel-centred mission. That is why
there is no sense in the New Testament that the Church should aspire to
establishment by the State. Obviously, that kind of thing would have been
impossible anyway under Nero. But the apostles don't so much as hint that
establishment would be in any way desirable. All they asked was that the State
tolerate the existence and activities of the Church (see Paul in Acts). The
apostles would certainly have been outraged at the thought that the State
should appoint Church leaders. However, the Church/State distinction found so
clearly in the New Testament was gradually eroded away from Constantine
onwards.

Even the Reformers were willing to use the powers of the State to further their
cause. They are called Magisterial Reformers because they expected the
Magistrate to help reform both church and society. In 16th century England,
some Protestant got so fed up with the slow pace of Reform in the Church of
England, that they took the radical step of separating from the established
Church. In the words of a title of one of their books, they believed in
Reformation without Tarrying for Any. These Separatists, men like Henry
Barrowe, John Greenwood and John Penry argued that the Church should not have
to wait for permission from the State to implement reform. This was seen as so
subversive of the unity of the country that some Separatists were actually put
to death. But it slowly began to dawn on more and more Protestants that Church
and State should be separated. The Independent Puritans tended to this view,
while Presbyterians held that the godly Magistrate had a duty to assist with
Church reformation. The 1689 Baptist Confession amends the Westminster
Confession's section on the Civil Magistrate(here), to limit the State's role
in Church affairs (here).

Some would no doubt like to see the Church of England disestablished for
reasons of secular pluralism. The report cited at the top of this post does not
call for full-blown disestablishment, but for a limit to be placed on the
number of Church of England Bishops in the Lords, while room is made for
representatives of other faiths. Pluralism is the order of the day where an
attempt is made to reduce all faiths to an irreducible minimum that amounts to
little more than, 'Let's all be nice to each other'. While I'm all in favour of
peaceful co-existence between people of all faiths and none, that cannot be at
the expense of the doctrinal disctinctives of the Christian faith.

The report also veers towards a secularising agenda that would push faith-based
values and views to the margins of public life. While I would welcome the
separation of Church and State, that does not mean the public square should be
seen as a God-free zone. Jesus Christ is Lord of all. He is head of the church
and King of the world. All created reality is subject to his rule, including
human society and culture. Christians should act as salt and light to influence
the direction of their country. Having Church of England Bishops sit in the
Lords is not the way to do it. But individual believers can exercise influence
by serving as politicians, writing to their MPs on matters of concern, getting
involved in their local communities and so on. By all those means and more we
can 'seek the peace of the city' and ensure that Christian values are brought
to bear upon the public square.

In 1914, the Church of England was disestablished in Wales, largely due to
pressure from the Nonconformist Churches. Isn't it about time that England got
up to speed?

*This is an update of a post that was published a while back. 
Posted by Guy Davies at 12:00 pm 15 comments: Links to this post ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Church History, church life, Society

Thursday, December 03, 2015

“I wish it could be Christmas everyday” Really?

Image result for i wish it could be christmas everyday
Yes, it’s that time of year again. There are pressies to buy, cards to write
and decorations to retrieve from the loft. Then there’s the tree; do you go for
a real one, or the thing you bought from Woolies years ago? Better not forget
to order a turkey for the Big Day. Wonder what’s going to be on telly? A Doctor
Who special, I guess and other seasonal treats. And then there’s the music.
Stuff about sleigh bells, snow and Santa. “‘Tis the season to be jolly”, and we
invest a huge amount of time, energy and dosh into making sure that Christmas
is the happiest time of all.

“I wish it could be Christmas everyday” hollers the old Wizard hit. But who
apart from wide-eyed little kids really thinks that? Once a year is quite
enough, thanks. Anything else would drive us crackers. Yes, it’s fun while it
lasts. Family gatherings, giving and receiving gifts, and a slap up Christmas
dinner with all the trimmings. What’s not to like? But doing it all again
everyday? “Let it snow, let it snow, let it snow...” in July? Maybe not.

In any case, even with all we throw at it, the joys of Christmas fizzle out all
too soon. Perhaps that’s because we’ve forgotten the “reason for the season”.
We all know that Jesus wasn’t in fact born on 25th December, but that’s the
date on which we traditionally celebrate his coming into the world. His birth
was announced by the angel of the Lord to some unsuspecting shepherds. They
were rather startled at the sight of the angelic being, but he reassured them,
“Do not be afraid. I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all the
people. Today in the town of David a Saviour has been born to you; he is
Christ, the Lord.”

The birth of Jesus was an occasion of great joy because he had come as the
Saviour. There is a direct line between Christmas and Easter. The Son of God
came into the world as a human being in order to die on the cross for our sins
and rise again so that we may be put right with God. The gifts we give and
receive at Christmas time are a pale reflection of the greatest Gift God has
given to the world, “God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son,
that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life.” For those
who receive God’s gift of Jesus, the joy of Christmas is not just for everyday,
but for eternity. Really.  

See here for info on Providence and Ebenezer Christmas services.  

* For Trinity and News & Views parish magazines 
Posted by Guy Davies at 10:58 am No comments: Links to this post ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Christmas

Thursday, November 26, 2015

John Owen Centre Doctrine Study Day on 'Sinai: What was the Law For?'

[JOC]

Well, that was good. Yesterday I attended a John Owen Centre Study Day led by
Garry Williams on 'Sinai: What was the Law For?' This was the 5th of these
events hosted by our Bradford on Avon Ministers' Fraternal. 

The study days take the form of a seminar where Garry leads the group in
discussing a paper he has prepared on the subject in hand. The papers contain a
distillation of his study, setting out the diverse views of various writers
before drawing some conclusions.  

We gave attention to the character of the Sinai covenant. Was it a covenant of
works, a covenant of grace administered as a covenant of works, or a covenant
of grace with a special focus on law? That led to a lively discussion,
especially when it came to the views of Meredith Kline. We also considered what
is the 'problem' with the law? Your view on this second issue will probably be
determined by your attitude to the Sinai covenant. 

It was a real 'iron sharpening iron' occasion where group members endeavored to
assess the various theological viewpoints in the light of Scripture. It really
made me think and just occasionally blurt out what I was thinking. With so many
Bible literate colleagues around, woe betide anyone who (like me) tried quoting
Scripture from memory and got it a bit wrong.

It wasn't all about high level theological discussion, though. Thought was
given to how what we had learned might impact on our preaching and so be of
benefit to the people Of God.

I look forward to giving Garry's paper a good read through, as we had to skip
some bits on the day due to time constraints. 

I'm not going to try and summarise the paper, or the discussion it stimulated
here, as this Study Day is still on the road and I don't want to 'steal Garry's
thunder'. Far better to attend one near you. See the John Owen Centre website
for details of other Study Days around the country, or contact them about
hosting one at your Fraternal. 
Posted by Guy Davies at 5:51 pm No comments: Links to this post ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Fraternals, Garry Williams, John Owen Centre, Law, Theology

Thursday, November 19, 2015

Building Better Boards: An Opportunity for Education

[Building-Better-Boards-Cove]
Published by Wild Search
 
This report seeks to assess the state of school governance today and makes
proposals that are intended to enable governors to respond to the challenges
presented by a rapidly changing educational landscape. Governance used to be
the Cinderella of schooling, receiving little attention from government
ministers and policy wonks. That has now changed. The much discussed Trojan
Horse affair has shown up the damage than can be done when governance goes
awry. The move towards academisation, and with it the diminishing power of
Local Education Authorities has placed an increasing burden on governors to
monitor the performance of their school or group of schools in the case of
Multi Academy Trusts. The preface by Lord Nash highlights the excellent work of
the All Party Parliamentary Group for Education Governance and Leadership. He
recognises the importance of governance as an agent for  change in a school-led
system. It is instructive that head of Ofsted, Sir Michael Wilshaw chose to
devote the second of his monthly 'commentaries' to the subject of governance
for 21st century schools. 

By 'school-led system' Nash means schools working together under the auspices
of an Academy Chain or Multi-Academy Trust. The jury is out on whether
academies perform better than maintained schools, especially when it comes to
raising standards for disadvantaged students. But with David Cameron wanting
all schools to have the 'opportunity' to become an academy by the end of the
current parliament, it looks as though the drive towards academisation remains
a key plank in the government's education policy.

But if governors are going to help fill the vacuum left by the decline of LEAs
they are going to have to sharpen up their act. The report emphasises the need
for governors to be appointed on the basis of their skills and for existing
governors to engage in high quality training and professional development. The
authors are rather sniffy about Parent Governors. They would like to see a
shift from the stakeholder model towards skills-based governance, as if it's a
case of either the one or the other. I disagree. It is rather patronising to
suggest that Parent Governors don't necessarily have the skills needed to
govern. At our school Parent Governors are a highly skilled bunch, but they are
also passionate about seeing the school attended by their children continuing
to make rapid progress. A concern about Parent Governors only being interested
in the welfare and progress of their own darling children can be resolved by
effective induction and training so that they understand the strategic nature
of the role. The answer to the tendency for governor meetings to be sidetracked
by parents raising issues to do with their children is good chairing, not
getting rid of Parent Governors altogether.

The core functions of governance are: 1. Setting the Vision, Ethos and Strategy
of the school. 2. Holding the Headteacher to account for the educational
progress of the school. 3. Ensuring value for money. In all those areas parents
have a role to play, as well as school leaders, staff,  members of the local
community and governors appointed simply on account of their skills. In any
case, when Parent Governor vacancies become available it is good practice for
the role advertisement to include a description of the desired set of skills
that a parent might bring to the table to complement the existing team. Do we
really want a situation where Governing Boards are almost exclusively comprised
of accountants, lawyers and high-powered business men and women? With all due
respect to the good people of those professions, that would represent a
considerable narrowing of the range of interests and backgrounds represented at
board level. But whatever the composition of our boards we need to ensure that
governors are trained and empowered to contribute to the strategic leadership
of their schools and to hold senior leaders to account. In her recent address
to the NGA conference Emma Knights issued a rallying call to governors that we
would do well to heed. 

Attention is given to the challenges of governance in  Multi-Academy Trusts,
especially in the light of the Education and Adoption Bill 2015-16. The bill
will legislate to make it harder for maintained schools judged 'Inadequate' or
'coasting' by Ofsted to resist being forced to join an Academy Chain or MAT.
However, recent Ofsted reports arising from the inspection of Chains and MATs
suggest a mixed picture when it comes to these 'school-led systems' being able
to turn around failing schools. Often the problem with poorly performing
schools is not their maintained status, but ineffective leadership and weak
governance. Forcing a struggling school to join a group that may share those
characteristics isn't going to help anyone (see here and here). Far better for
a successful local school to offer school-to-school support at leadership and
governance level to an underperforming neighbour. But where is the funding to
facilitate that kind of thing? If MATs are the way to go, let them at least be
area-wide set-ups that are the product of a shared vision, ethos and strategy,
not 'marriages of convenience' with several schools in one part of the country
and a few dotted elsewhere, having little in common save a bit of branding. 

The aspect of this report that garnered media interest was the proposal that
governors, notably Chairs should be remunerated for their work. Sir Michael
Wilshaw concurs with this view in his 'commentary' . However, while reasonable
expenses should be paid so that no one is left out of pocket for their efforts,
I'm not sure that I would want governors to be paid. That does not make us
dilettante amateurs, but 'unpaid professionals', who seek to serve as governors
in local schools for the common good of the communities in which we live. Even
when it comes to Chairs, it is difficult to see how either they would be
offered little more than an insulting pittance for their work, or be paid so
much as to change the nature of the role in a detrimental way. Chairs might be
reluctant to do anything that might deprive them of 'a nice little earner' and
fail to upset apple carts that sometimes need upsetting. Effective chairing
might be better secured by in-post chairs taking advantage of high quality
training such as the Chairs of Governors' Leadership Development Programme.
Thoughtful succession planning is also vital for ensuring continuity of good
leadership at the helm of the GB.  

One area that did not receive sufficient reflection here was the
professionalisation of clerking. If more is going to be expected of governors
and they are to remain unpaid for their services, then governing boards are
going to need the support of highly effective clerks. The role of the clerk is
to offer the board procedural and legal advice and guidance, organise and
prepare for meetings, take minutes and so on. Too often clerks are regarded as
semi-professionals who routinely work well over their contracted hours. They
are not always subject to regular performance management to help ensure their
continued professional development. This needs to change. Effective clerking is
essential for efficient, sharply focused and properly functioning school
governance.  

I don't want to sound too negative about this report, though. That fact that
governance is being given attention in a document like this is welcome in
itself. There are some good things here, such as arguing the case for governors
to engage in rigorous self-evaluation. The emphasis on skills and training is
welcome. The pieces on The Importance of Communications and Promoting the Role
of Governors are helpful enough. The findings of Building Better Boards should
stimulate discussion among governors as to how we may best respond to the
challenges that we face in the current educational climate. Boards would do
well to review their practices in the light of the report's recommendations.
While not all of the proposals found here may command agreement, they at least
deserve serious thought and consideration. 

I am grateful to the publisher for supplying a free review copy. 
Posted by Guy Davies at 11:38 am No comments: Links to this post ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Book Review, Governance

Monday, November 02, 2015

November: A Month to Remember

[bonfire_night_]

The recent film Inside Out is all about how memory helps to shape our identity.
It focuses on Riley, an 11-year old girl and her struggle to adjust to life
when her family moves from Minnesota to San Francisco. Her feelings are
controlled by five characters representing her emotions; Joy, Sadness, Disgust,
Fear and Anger. As we've come to expect of Pixar. the film is a visually
stunning spectacle, especially as we join Joy and Sadness on a trip around
Riley's brain as they seek to recover her personality-forming core memories. I
won't spoil the plot for you by summarising it here. If you left it too late to
catch the film in the cinema, get the DVD or something. You’ll enjoy it.
Watching it put me in mind of Augustine’s classic treatment of the theme of
memory in his Confessions. But that’s probably just me.

The month of November evokes memories. There’s Bonfire Night, which recalls Guy
Fawkes’ foiled attempt to blow up parliament. The old ditty calls us to
‘Remember, remember the 5th of November/Gunpowder, treason and plot.’ And then
there’s Remembrance Sunday on 8th November and Remembrance Day on the 11th,
commemorating the end of the First World War. On those days the whole nation
pauses to remember those who gave their lives for this country. Their sacrifice
should not be forgotten.

Some of our memories are sad and others happy. In the film Inside Out, Joy
keeps trying to cheer Riley up, as she's feeling out of sorts in her new
environment. At all costs she wants to stop Sadness touching the girl's core
memories. But it is only when Riley is allowed to feel sad that she realises
how much she is loved and pulls back from doing something stupid. We wouldn't
choose sad times in our lives. But they are often occasions when family and
friends have rallied round and surprised us with the warmth of their love and
care.

Memory is an important aspect of the Christian faith. Jesus knew that he was
about to lay down his life  so that those who believe in him may be forgiven
and be put right with God. He told his followers to eat a simple meal of bread
and wine in remembrance of him. The bread was a symbol of his body and the wine
of his blood. Nigh on 2,000 years later Christians continue to remember Jesus
in that way. The Lord wanted his people never to forget how much he loved them.
He said, ‘Greater love has no one than this, than this: to lay down his life
for his friends.’ That’s something worth remembering all year round.

* For News & Views & Trinity parish magazines. 
Posted by Guy Davies at 2:46 pm No comments: Links to this post ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Christian faith

Thursday, October 22, 2015

Jonathan Edwards for the Church edited by William M. Schweitzer

[Book-Cover]
Jonathan Edwards for the Church: The ministry and the means of Grace,
           Edited by: William M. Schweitzer, EP Books, 2015, 309pp. 

Jonathan Edwards has long been recognised as a towering intellectual genius.
His works have attracted attention in the worlds of philosophy and academic
theology. But Edwards was above all else a pastor and preacher of the gospel.
Most of his time and energies were devoted to church-based ministry. This
multi-author book endeavours to redress the balance by focusing on what Edwards
had to say on the ministry and the means of grace,

Lessons are drawn from the preacher’s life and teaching and attempts are made
to apply what may be learned to our situation today. The book will be of
special interest to pastors, who will find Edwards’ vision of pastoral ministry
both an inspiration and a challenge. Edwards was a pastor-theologian, a
diligent student of the Word who devoted himself to the exploration and defence
of the great doctrines of the Bible. But his sermons were not intended to be
lectures that simply informed the minds of his hearers, but messages that
reached their hearts and transformed their lives as the truth of the gospel was
proclaimed and understood.

Edwards experienced several seasons of revival under his ministry in
Northampton. His knowledge of the Word and the human heart helped him to
discern what was genuinely of the Spirit and what was merely of the flesh
during those revival periods. His balanced approach exemplified in his key
work, The Religious Affections, helped him guard his people from unbelieving
scepticism and hot-headed fanaticism.

Chapters are devoted to various aspects of Edwards’ ministry and thought
including the means of grace, persevering in faithful ministry, the power of
the word and Christ as the scope of Scripture. The essay on Edwards’ vision of
God’s excellences is outstanding. Some of the chapters could have done with a
little more editorial attention. The preacher’s dismissal from his Northampton
pastorate is discussed at length in chapter 4, but chapter 5 begins by going
over the same ground.

Occasionally one can hear the sound of axes grinding. It is claimed that unlike
some contemporary Evangelicals, Edwards had little time for contextualising his
message to address his cultural situation. (Are you listening, Tim Keller?) But
he was a keen student of Enlightenment thought and adapted his language
accordingly. Describing conversion as giving a ‘sense of new things’ is a case
in point. That said, his ministry could have done with a little more
contextualisation when it came to preaching to Native American Indians in
Stockbridge, where he made no attempt to learn their language, preferring to
use a translator. 

An appendix includes a sermon on revival by William Macleod. It is stirring
enough, but the preacher has a dig at Christians for using the internet and
Facebook. I'm not sure that Edwards would have agreed with his strictures. He
was no techno-Luddite and it may even be claimed that the preacher was far
sighted enough to predict the internet. He prognosticated, "There will be so
many contrivances and inventions to facilitate and expedite their necessary
secular business that they shall have more time for more noble exercise, and
that they will have better contrivances for assisting one another through the
whole earth by more expedite, easy, and safe communication between distant
regions than now." (See here). Admittedly, the preacher didn't anticipate
people informing the world that they had just made a cup of tea via Facebook,
but I think we have reasons to believe that he would have blogged and perhaps
even tweeted. Edwards' Miscellanies would make for perfectly formed blog
posts. 

Criticisms aside, the writers have done a good job in setting forth Edwards’
vision of a Spirit empowered, Christ centred, and God glorifying ministry. A
vision that needs to be recovered in our churches today.

* An edited version of this review will appear in Evangelical Times. 

Posted by Guy Davies at 12:14 pm No comments: Links to this post ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Book Review, Jonathan Edwards, Ministry
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)

Exiled Preacher

My Photo

Guy Davies

View my complete profile
●

Feeds

follow us in feedly

Enter your email address:

[                    ]

[Subscribe]

Delivered by FeedBurner

[feed-icon1] Subscribe in a reader

●

Twitter

  • @ExiledPreacher

●

Facebook

  • Exiled Preacher on Facebook

●

Archive

  • ▼  2016 (2)
      □ ▼  January (2)
          ☆ Anglican Primates' conference: the church militant...
          ☆ The Star of Bethlehem by Stuart Burgess

  • ►  2015 (37)
      □ ►  December (4)
      □ ►  November (3)
      □ ►  October (2)
      □ ►  September (3)
      □ ►  August (4)
      □ ►  July (2)
      □ ►  June (6)
      □ ►  May (2)
      □ ►  April (6)
      □ ►  March (2)
      □ ►  January (3)

  • ►  2014 (52)
      □ ►  December (5)
      □ ►  November (1)
      □ ►  October (5)
      □ ►  September (3)
      □ ►  August (19)
      □ ►  July (1)
      □ ►  June (5)
      □ ►  April (7)
      □ ►  March (2)
      □ ►  February (2)
      □ ►  January (2)

  • ►  2013 (64)
      □ ►  December (5)
      □ ►  November (4)
      □ ►  October (5)
      □ ►  September (8)
      □ ►  August (5)
      □ ►  July (6)
      □ ►  June (4)
      □ ►  May (7)
      □ ►  April (6)
      □ ►  March (4)
      □ ►  February (3)
      □ ►  January (7)

  • ►  2012 (100)
      □ ►  December (9)
      □ ►  November (7)
      □ ►  October (8)
      □ ►  September (4)
      □ ►  August (4)
      □ ►  July (11)
      □ ►  June (7)
      □ ►  May (13)
      □ ►  April (10)
      □ ►  March (10)
      □ ►  February (10)
      □ ►  January (7)

  • ►  2011 (109)
      □ ►  December (9)
      □ ►  November (10)
      □ ►  October (5)
      □ ►  September (12)
      □ ►  August (6)
      □ ►  July (11)
      □ ►  June (8)
      □ ►  May (9)
      □ ►  April (10)
      □ ►  March (8)
      □ ►  February (10)
      □ ►  January (11)

  • ►  2010 (154)
      □ ►  December (13)
      □ ►  November (11)
      □ ►  October (12)
      □ ►  September (18)
      □ ►  August (5)
      □ ►  July (18)
      □ ►  June (10)
      □ ►  May (14)
      □ ►  April (15)
      □ ►  March (14)
      □ ►  February (13)
      □ ►  January (11)

  • ►  2009 (179)
      □ ►  December (15)
      □ ►  November (18)
      □ ►  October (14)
      □ ►  September (13)
      □ ►  August (6)
      □ ►  July (23)
      □ ►  June (15)
      □ ►  May (13)
      □ ►  April (18)
      □ ►  March (17)
      □ ►  February (16)
      □ ►  January (11)

  • ►  2008 (159)
      □ ►  December (8)
      □ ►  November (13)
      □ ►  October (16)
      □ ►  September (16)
      □ ►  August (4)
      □ ►  July (10)
      □ ►  June (17)
      □ ►  May (19)
      □ ►  April (14)
      □ ►  March (14)
      □ ►  February (16)
      □ ►  January (12)

  • ►  2007 (287)
      □ ►  December (13)
      □ ►  November (25)
      □ ►  October (22)
      □ ►  September (20)
      □ ►  August (8)
      □ ►  July (23)
      □ ►  June (25)
      □ ►  May (30)
      □ ►  April (25)
      □ ►  March (45)
      □ ►  February (32)
      □ ►  January (19)

  • ►  2006 (148)
      □ ►  December (14)
      □ ►  November (19)
      □ ►  October (10)
      □ ►  September (5)
      □ ►  August (5)
      □ ►  July (14)
      □ ►  June (11)
      □ ►  May (17)
      □ ►  April (12)
      □ ►  March (20)
      □ ►  February (13)
      □ ►  January (8)

  • ►  2005 (18)
      □ ►  December (6)
      □ ►  November (4)
      □ ►  October (8)

●

Welsh

According to a distinguished fellow countryman, "The Englishman looks upon the
Welshman as a rebel, an awkward individualist, as a man who always wants his
own way and is perpetually creating totally uncalled for difficulties"
(D.M.Lloyd-Jones).
●

Favourites

  • Blogging in the name of the Lord interviews: Series 1
  • Blogging in the name of the Lord interviews: Series 2
  • Blogging in the name of the Lord interviews: Series 3
  • Blogging in the name of the Lord interviews: Series 4
  • Blogging in the name of the Lord interviews: Series 5
  • Blogging in the name of the Lord interviews: Series 6
  • Blogging in the name of the Lord interviews: Specials
  • Book reviews
  • Diary 2: Another week in my life
  • Diary: A week in my life
  • Extemporary Preaching
  • Partakers of the divine nature
  • PowerPoint and the death of preaching
  • Preaching & the power of the Spirit
  • Resurrection Dogmatics
  • Ten things on...
  • Theodramatic Preaching

●

Faith

  • Nicene Creed
  • Definition of Chalcedon
  • Canons of Dort
  • 1689 Baptist Confession
  • FIEC Basis of Faith
  • Historic Church Documents
  • Hold fast your Confession!
  • Why I'm a Baptist

●

Ministry

  • Providence & Ebenezer Churches

●

Preaching

  • Listen online

●

Study

  • Greenwich School of Theology
  • London Theological Seminary

●

Blogs

  • 9Marks
  • A Letter from Kabwata
  • Against Heresies
  • Albert Mohler
  • Archbishop Cranmer
  • Between Two Worlds
  • Biblical Christianity
  • Biblical Preaching
  • Bloggin Parson
  • Bluefish Project
  • Canon Fodder
  • Challies.com
  • Creideamh
  • Cutting it Straight
  • David Ceri
  • Dissenting Opinion
  • Doggie's Breakfast
  • Donald Macleod
  • Double Usefulness
  • Euangelion
  • Geoff Thomas' Glog
  • Harp from the Willows
  • HeadHeartHand
  • Heavenly Worldliness
  • Helm's Deep
  • Historica Ecclesiastica
  • Les Daveys de France
  • Matravers School Governor Blog
  • Miscellanies
  • Nothing new under the sun
  • Pastor's Pen
  • Paul Tripp
  • Practical Shepherding
  • Preachers and Pastors
  • Pundits Folly
  • Pyromaniacs
  • Reclaimed
  • Reformation 21
  • Reformation Theology
  • Reformed Baptist Fellowship
  • Sky's the Limit
  • Something to Say
  • The Proclaimer
  • Tim Chester
  • Unashamed Workman
  • Underdog Theology
  • Wanderer
  • Welsh Bible Blogs
  • Works of Frame & Poythress
  • Yorkshire Preacher in Exile

●

Theology

  • Beginning with Moses
  • Berean Beacon
  • Bible Gateway
  • Biblical Studies
  • Biblical Theology: Geerhardus Vos
  • Calvin's Institutes Online
  • Christian Classics Ethereal Library
  • Fire & Ice Puritan and Reformed Writings
  • Gospel Coalition
  • Hall of Church History (Theology from a bunch of dead guys)
  • Herman Bavinck
  • John Owen
  • Jonathan Edwards
  • Monergism
  • Reformation Ink
  • The Theologian
  • Theological Studies
  • Theology Network
  • Theopedia

●

Books

  • Amazon Wishlist
  • Pendleburys
  • Protestant Truth Society Bookshop
  • Solid Ground Christian Books
  • 10ofthose

●

Media

  • Banner of Truth Magazine
  • Christianity Today
  • Evangelical Magazine
  • Evangelical Times
  • Evangelicals Now
  • First Things
  • Foundations
  • Protestant Truth Magazine
  • Themelios
  • Unbelievable? Premier Christian Radio

●

Stats

[ExiledPre]
●

Total Pageviews

●
Wikio - Top Blogs - Religion and belief
●
Powered By Blogger
●
●
 
Awesome Inc. template. Template images by mariusFM77. Powered by Blogger.
●
