    Boston Collaborative Encyclopedia of Western Theology
   About the BCE       WeirdWildWeb       About the Editor

Karl Rahner (1904-1984)

┌───────────────────────────────┐
│Table of Contents              │
├───────────────────────────────┤
│1. Background                  │
│2. Works (Selected List)       │
│3. Themes                      │
│4. Outline of Major Works      │
│5. Relation to Other Thinkers  │
│6. Bibliography and Works Cited│
│7. Internet Resources          │
│8. Related Topics              │
└───────────────────────────────┘

How does one approach the study of the German, Catholic theologian, Karl
Rahner? While no one work can be pointed to as an example of his "systematic"
theological program, he has written on almost every theological topic. His
thought is multifaceted, original, and certainly dense. This essay will offer
two things. First, it offers an opportunity to understand something of the life
history of Karl Rahner by means of a brief outline. Second, it offers a glimpse
of his theological approach by focusing on some of his foundational ideas. In
order to understand him we will investigate some of the phrases he coined such
as "self-communication of God," "supernatural existential," "mystical moment,"
"thematic" and "unthematic" experience, "transcendental," "fundamental option,"
and "anonymous Christians." Yet, while we may describe him as a theologian, it
was, for him, never merely a choice between philosophy or theology. He lived by
the conviction that both belong together. For Rahner, theology implies a
philosophical anthropology, and human existence implies the experience of God.
It is this insight that best alerts us to his primary concern. However, before
continuing with his theological program, let us turn now to a sketch of his
life.

1. Background

Early Years

 Karl Rahner was born March 5, 1904, in the city of Freiburg in Breisgau,
Germany. His parents, Karl and Luise (Trescher) Rahner, had seven children, of
which Karl was the fourth. His father was a professor in a local college. His
mother’s religious influence in the home resulted in an atmosphere that was
both open and pious. Karl attended primary and secondary school in Freiburg,
which seems to have had a reputation for being tolerant and liberal minded.
Karl decided to enter the Society of Jesus upon graduation, and began his
novitiate in the North German Province of the Jesuits on April 20, 1922, four
years after his older brother Hugo entered the same Order. During the initial
phase of the novitiate (1920-24) Rahner was deeply affected by the spirituality
of Ignatius of Loyola, that later was to permeate his whole theological
program, especially the notion of "finding God in all things." Karl Rahner’s
education during the next phase of the novitiate (1924-7) included an
introduction to the Catholic scholastic philosophy and modern German
philosophers. He seems especially to have been interested in Immanuel Kant and
two contemporary Thomists, Joseph Maréchal and Pierre Rousselot. These latter
two were to influence Rahner’s understanding of Thomas Aquinas (as well as to
offer a way to deal with Kant’s transcendental method in relation to Thomistic
epistemology).

During the first years of his Jesuit formation Rahner was deeply taken by
Ignatian spirituality, as reflected in his first article, “Why We Need to
Pray,” which appeared in the journal Leuchtturm (‘Lighthouse’). While studying
philosophy in Feldkirch and Pullach (1922-1927), Rahner had the opportunity to
become acquainted with Immanuel Kant, along with the Belgian Jesuit Joseph
Maréchal and the French Jesuit Pierre Rousselot. As Rahner himself later
mentioned, these two Jesuit philosophers, especially Maréchal, deeply
influenced his own philosophical and theological work. Maréchal was famous for
his study on Kant and Thomism, especially for applying Kant’s transcendental
method to Thomistic epistemology (Vorgrimler 1986, 51).

Since Jesuit training included a period of practical work, Rahner was assigned
to teach Latin to the novices at Feldkirch (1927-29). After this, he began his
theological studies at the Jesuit theologate in Valkenburg, Holland in 1929,
which allowed him to develop a thorough grasp of patristic theology. He was
also interested in spiritual theology, mysticism and the history of piety. On
July 26, 1932, Rahner was ordained priest and then began his last year of
required theological training, which was devoted to prayer and gaining pastoral
experience before starting formal ministry. Rahner completed this training at
St. Andra, Austria in 1933. He then spent the “silent year” of the Tertiate in
St. Andrea in Austria’s Lavanttal Valley.

Philosophy and Theology Together

Since Rahner’s superiors had decided that he would teach philosophy at Pullach,
he returned home to Freiburg in 1934 to study for the doctorate in philosophy.
During this time he delved more deeply into the philosophy of Kant and
Maréchal, while at the same time attending seminars by Martin Heidegger. Rahner
participated in the demanding seminar taught by Heidegger for two years, as a
result of which he became one of the so-called, Catholic Heidegger School (an
effort to unite Heideggerian insights with a reinterpretation of the thought of
Thomas Aquinas), along with J.B. Lotz, G. Siewerth, B. Welte, and M. Müller.
His philosophy dissertation Geist im Welt, an intriguing interpretation of
Aquinas’s epistemology influenced by the transcendental Thomism of Joseph
Maréchal and the existentialism of Martin Heidegger (that is, the relation
between Aquinas’s notion of dynamic mind and Heidegger’s analysis of Dasein, or
being-in-the-world), was ultimately rejected by his mentor Martin Honecker
apparently because it was influenced too much by Heidegger and did not
sufficiently express the Catholic neo-scholastic tradition. According to
Vorgrimler, Honecker’s rejection of Rahner’s dissertation reflected the
former’s antipathy toward Heidegger’s philosophy (Vorgrimler 1986, 62). Thirty
four year later the Philosophical Faculty of the University of Innsbruck gave
him an honorary doctorate for his philosophical works, especially for his
failed dissertation, published in 1939 as Geist in Welt (Spirit in the World,
hereafter SW). Yet, it was in the early 1930s that Rahner elucidated his
conviction that the human search for meaning was rooted in the unlimited
horizon of God’s own being experienced within the world.

In 1936 Rahner was moved to Innsbruck by his superiors to continue his
theological studies. With his previous knowledge of patristic theology he
completed his habilitationsschrift (a second dissertation qualifying one to
teach at the university level), "From the side of Christ: The origin of the
church as second Eve from the side of Christ the second Adam. An examination of
the typological meaning of John 19:34" in 1937.  Soon after the completion of
this work he was appointed a Privatdozent (lecturer) in the faculty of theology
of the University of Innsbruck in July, 1937.

Despite the rejection of his first dissertation in philosophy, Rahner’s
interest in philosophy was still alive and even “almost superstitious” (Kress
1982, 3). During the summer of 1937 Rahner delivered a series of lectures to
the Salzburg Summer School on "Foundations of a Philosophy of Religion," which
were later published in 1941 as Hörer des Wortes (Hearers of the Word, 
hereafter HW), which represented another step in the development of Rahner’s
philosophical anthropology. This too represented a dialogue between Thomistic
metaphysics and Heidegger’s phenomenological ontology. Rahner, using
Heidegger’s notion that the question of the meaning of one’s being is preceded
by a "pregrasp" of the world’s horizon of meaning, said that the search and
longing of the human subject for meaning of experience is grounded in a
"preconceptual" grasp of God’s infinite horizon of being as a condition (and
fulfillment) of the human search for meaning. Together with SW, this book
demonstrated Rahner’s philosophical views underlying his whole theological
system. While in SW Rahner provided a general philosophical anthropology, in HW
he applied this specifically to theological matters, especially to the question
of revelation.

In 1939 the Nazis took over the University and Rahner, while staying in
Austria, was invited to Vienna to work in the Pastoral Institute, where he both
taught at the institute and became active in pastoral work. During the war
(1939-1949) Rahner had to leave Germany for Vienna, where he taught theology
and worked as a pastor.

Post-war Years: Teaching, Writing and Controversy

In 1948-9 Rahner returned to the theology faculty at Innsbruck and taught on a
wide variety of topics which were to become the essays published in Schriften
zur Theologie (Theological Investigations). The Investigations is not a
systematic presentation of Rahner’s views, but, rather, is a diverse collection
of essays on theological topics characterized by his probing, questioning
search for truth.

Rahner was to develop difficulties with Rome. His outspoken, frank approach to
issues and his creative, challenging and non-traditional approach to theology
often got him into trouble with the authorities who tended to be more
traditionally minded, especially on the issue of the "unchangeable" teachings
of the Catholic Church. In 1962, however, with no prior warning Rahner’s
superiors in the Order told him that he was under Roman pre-censorship, which
meant that he could not publish or lecture without prior permission. The basic
objections of the Roman authorities focused, essentially, on Rahner’s views on
the eucharist and Mariology. However, the practical import of this decision was
evacuated in November 1962 when, without any objection, John XXIII appointed
Rahner a peritus (expert advisor) to the Second Vatican Council. Rahner had
complete access to the council and numerous opportunities to share his thought.
Rahner’s influence at Vatican II was widespread. He was chosen as one of seven
theologians who would develop Lumen Gentium, the dogmatic explication of the
doctrine of the Church, and he had input to many of the other conciliar
presentations as well. The council’s openness to other religious traditions can
be linked to Rahner’s notions of the renovation of the church, God’s universal
salvific revelation and his desire to support and encourage the ecumenical
movement. According to Vorgrimler, it is not hard to trace Rahner’s influence
on the work of the Council (with the exception, however, of four texts: the
Decree On the Means of Social Communication, the Decree On the Catholic Eastern
Churches, the Declaration on Christian education, and the Declaration on
Religious Liberty) (Vorgrimler 1986, 100).

During the council Rahner was invited to take the Chair for Christianity and
the Philosophy of Religion at the University of Munich. He accepted the chair
in philosophy and began teaching in 1964. The lectures in Munich were to be the
core material published in his more systematic Grundkars des Glaubens (
Foundations of Christian Faith). Unfortunately, since the chair he held was in
philosophy, Rahner was not involved in the direct preparation of doctoral
students, something he greatly desired. As a result, he accepted a chair in
dogmatic theology in the Catholic theological faculty of the University of
Münster, where he stayed until his retirement in 1971.

The Final Years

Moving to Munich, and finally to Innsbruck in 1981, he remained for the next 13
years an active writer and lecturer, and continued active pastoral ministry. He
continued to publish volumes (23 total in English) of collected essays for the
Schriften zur Theologie (Theological Investigations), expanded the Kleines
theologisches Wörterbuch (Theological Dictionary), and co-authored other works
such as Unity of the Churches: An Actual Possibility with Heinrich Fries. In
1976 he finally completed the long-promised systematic work, Foundations of
Christian Faith (hereafter, FCF). Rahner died on 30 March 1984 at the age of
80.

Rahner’s works are extraordinarily voluminous. In addition to the writings that
have been mentioned previously his other major works include: the ten-volume
encyclopedia, Lexicon für Theologie und Kirche; a six-volume theological
encyclopedia, Sacramentum Mundi, and many other books, edited books, and
articles. In addition to his own work, the reference works that Rahner edited
also added significantly to the general impact of his own theological views.

2. Works (Selected List)

Geist in Welt (1939, 1957, ET Spirit in the World, 1994), Hörer des Wortes
(1941, ET Hearers of the Word, 1969), Schriften zur Theologie (ET Theological
Investigations, 23 vols., 1961-92), Foundations of Christian Faith (1976, ET
1978).

3. Themes

Philosophical Foundations

It is impossible to understand Karl Rahner’s theological method without a firm
grasp of the philosophical perspective developed in his first books, SW and HW.
However, since these texts are not our main concern, I give them only brief
attention. In SW, which was intended as his philosophical dissertation, Rahner
develops, “under the general influence of Maréchal and with a few particular
borrowings from Heidegger, a rereading of Aquinas through the lens of Kant and
the post-Kantians” (Kilby 2004, 14). Here Rahner analyzes a single question in
St. Thomas’ Summa Theologica (I, Q84, a7), “Can the intellect actually know
anything through the intelligible species which it possesses, without turning
to the phantasms?” This question is important for Rahner, since in this
question Aquinas comes to a fundamental metaphysical issue: How can the human
intellect know any non-sensible thing or God? Thomas provides three modes of
this type of metaphysical apprehension: excessus (eminence or excess),
comparatio (comparison), and remotio (removal or negation). In the “Reply to
Objection 3” Aquinas argues,

Incorporeal things, of which there are no phantasms, are known to us by
comparison with sensible bodies of which there are phantasms. Thus we
understand truth by considering a thing of which we possess the truth; and God,
as Dionysius says (Div. Nom. i), we know as cause, by way of excess [excessus]
 and by way of remotion [remotio]. Other incorporeal substances we know, in the
present state of life, only by way of remotion [remotio] or by some comparison
[comparatio] to corporeal things. And, therefore, when we understand something
about these things, we need to turn to phantasms of bodies, although there are
no phantasms of the things themselves.

It is clear that Rahner focuses his attention in SW on excessus. He writes,

The excessus to metaphysics, which takes place in a conversion to the phantasm,
is considered as a condition of the truth of the human experience of the world
and metaphysics, insofar as it is on the one hand related to the world
possessed in sensation and so always consists in a consideration of the thing
through a conversion into phantasm, and yet on the other hand it contains a
being-set-apart from knowledge and thing, and only in this does the knowledge
become truth and the thing become object. In this being-set-apart, truth
appears over against the world and thus is possible only in an excessus beyond
the world which is possessed in sensation. Therefore it already belongs in the
realm of metaphysics. (SW, 54)

This long citation reflects Rahner’s conversations with Heidegger. Heidegger’s
focus on the importance of being-in-the-world (“in-der-Welt-Sein”) is for
Rahner similar to his notion of spirit-in-the-world, or in the citation above,
“the human experience of the world.” Yet, in order for the human spirit to be
in the world, it must simultaneously be “being-set-apart … against the world.”
This is possible through the excessus, or in Rahner’s term, borrowed loosely
from Heidegger, the pre-apprehension (Vorgriff). It is through the
pre-apprehension of being (Vorgriff auf esse) that human spirit “reaches out
toward what is nameless and by its very nature is infinite” (FCF, 62) or
“reaches out beyond the word and knows the metaphysical” (SW, liii). The
pre-apprehension itself is the condition of spirit transcending itself toward
the infinite being, while still remaining in the world. Thus, Rahner modifies
Heidegger’s notion of Dasein that moves the self toward nothing,
being-toward-death. On the contrary, argued Rahner, “the Vorgriff attains to a
‘more’ rather than to a ‘nothing’” (Carr 1977, 75).

Rahner also holds that we cannot distinguish knowing from being. It is human
being or spirit that knows the worldly reality as well as the infinite absolute
or God. Yet, in his theological works we find that Rahner maintains that God is
both known and unknown (more on this below). Accordingly, God is a mysterious
Being who is incomprehensible apart from God’s self-communication to the world.
In contrast to Schleiermacher’s understanding of God as “Whence,” Rahner offers
the understanding of God’s mysterious being as the “Whither” of
pre-apprehension. Yet, he argues dialectically, “This totality, precisely as
the ‘whither’ of the pre-apprehension, cannot be the subsequent sum, but only
the original unity of the possible objects” (SW, 145). Thus, God is both the
origin and goal of all reality. In short, God is the horizon of all beings. He
states, “We seem to know God, the ‘object’ of metaphysics, only as the
necessary horizon of the experience of world which is possible only in this
way” (SW, 407).

I have focused my exposition above on Rahner’s philosophical thought as
appeared in his SW. His other book, HW, deals with the same issues and
problems, but it establishes a transition from his more philosophical work to
his later theological writings.

Theological Methods

Philosophizing within Theology

As we have seen, Rahner is so eager to put theology into dialogue with
philosophy that one cannot find in his writings any position that is not
informed by his philosophical perspective. In Rahner’s own words, what he
proposes is to relate both philosophy and theology by “philosophizing … within
theology itself” (FCF, 10). Yet, what he means by philosophy is particularly an
anthropological philosophy, which focuses on humanity as the “universal
question” (FCF, 11). Thus, philosophy refers to the question of human beings
within their infinite horizon without any reference to the revealed sources.
For Rahner the fact that Christianity can be the answer requires that we do
theology. Moreover, the encounter between the question and the answer is made
possible by understanding God’s revelation as the “point of mediation” between
both (FCF, 11).

To some extent, Rahner’s approach is similar to Tillich’s method of
correlation, which interrelates “existential questions and theological answers
in mutual interdependence” (Tillich 1950, 60). Yet, as Fiorenza suggests, the
difference between them is that of “a Catholic sacramental vision of the world
as graced … and a Lutheran vision that is sensitive to the ambiguities and
sinfulness of the human condition” (in Livingstone 2000, 211).

Transcendental-Anthropological Method

How does Rahner develop this philosophical theology? It is clear that in
building his own system, Rahner always starts from the human as an existential
unity, who is simultaneously historical and transcendental. On the one hand,
the historical dimension of human being refers to the fact that we are always
connected to the world through our spatio-temporal and actual (“categorical” in
Rahner’s terms) experiences. In this sense, categorical experience is a
posteriori experience. Even, Rahner maintains, our transcendental knowledge or
experience of God, which is conditioned by our transcendentality, is also a
posteriori, since it is “mediated by a categorical encounter with concrete
reality in our world, both the world of things and the world of persons” (FCF,
52).

On the other hand, there is an a priori or given element in all human beings
that makes it possible for them to reach out to the infinite and to receive
God’s grace. This condition orients us not only in the direction of
experiencing God but also in the direction of experiencing ourselves as
transcendental subjects. Those two experiences, thus, “are not simply
identical, still both of them exist within a unity of such a kind that apart
from this unity it is quite impossible for there to be any such experiences at
all” (Rahner 1993, 222).

This is the transcendentality of human being that is basic to Rahner’s notion
of the pre-apprehension of being (Vorgriff auf esse). He says, “Man is a
transcendent being insofar as all of his knowledge and all of his conscious
activity is grounded in a pre-apprehension (Vorgriff) of ‘being’ as such, in an
unthematic but ever-present knowledge of the infinity of reality” (FCF, 33).
Thus, while the term “transcendental” or “transcendent” previously (e.g. in
Scholasticism) referred to the quality of a being (e.g. God) that is beyond any
category, Rahner now applies it to human beings as well.

For Rahner it is important to remember that we do not experience our
transcendentality without also experiencing our historicity. The question of
how these two features––transcendentality and historicity––correlate to each
other is undoubtedly paramount in Rahner’s theology. Human transcendental
experience of the infinite always takes place within real history and thus
makes human beings always return to themselves.

But because we know the world objectively, we are always already present to
ourselves in a complete return; in turning out to the world we have turned back
to ourselves. But then the horizon of the possible experience of world
necessarily becomes a theme itself, metaphysics becomes necessary in man’s
existence. Insofar as we ask about the world known by man, the world and the
man asking are already placed in question all the way back to their absolute
ground, to a ground which always lies beyond the boundaries within man’s grasp,
beyond the world. (SW, 407)

Therefore, there is a dynamic oscillation (Schwebe) between transcendentality
and historicity within human life. We are all fundamentally paradoxical, if not
ambivalent. We swing from one pole to another all the time. Rahner continues,

Thus man is the mid-point [schwebende Mitte] suspended between the world and
God, between time and eternity, and this boundary line is the point of his
definition and his destiny: “as a certain horizon and border between the
corporeal and incorporeal (ibid.)

The notion of Schwebe helps Rahner to elaborate his understanding of human
“being” as presence-to-self (Beisichsein des Seins). One finds this motif
throughout Rahner’s theological works. In FCF, for instance, Rahner says,
“Being a person, then, means the self-possession of a subject as such in a
conscious and free relationship to the totality of itself” (FCF, 30). Thus,
there is always a dynamic of turning to the subjective self, or in Thomas’s
words, “a complete return of the subject to itself” (reditio completa subjecti
in seipsum) (Rahner 1993, 223).

Dialectical Analogy

Patrick Burke suggests a specific term to name Rahner’s
philosophical-theological method: dialectical analogy (Burke 2002). By
dialectical analogy he means the method through which Rahner,

oscillated constantly between unifying dynamism and conceptual distinction and
therefore united dialectically while still holding in distinction the
traditional antinomies of Christian thought—God and the world, spirit and
matter, grace and nature (viii).

Unlike the traditional view of analogy of being, Rahner understands the
analogous language about God in his perspective of Schwebe. He argues,

It is a tension which is not produced by us at a logically subsequent midpoint
between a univocal “yes” and an equivocal “no.” It is rather a tension which we
ourselves as spiritual subjects originally are in our self-realization, and
which we can designate by the traditional term “analogy” if we understand what
this word means in its original sense. (FCF, 72)

Here “self-realization” refers to our existence “in and through our being
grounded in [God’s] holy mystery which always surpasses us” (FCF, 73).

Theological Themes

Having explored Rahner’s philosophical foundation as well as his theological
method, we now turn to some important theological themes in his system. To do
this, I choose to mine his brief yet richly stated views in FCF about the
central truth of the Christian faith.

[1] The only really absolute mysteries are the self-communication of God [2] in
the depths of existence, called grace, [3] and in history, called Jesus Christ,
[4] and this already includes the mystery of the Trinity in the economy of
salvation and of the immanent Trinity. (FCF, 12; numbers mine)

On my view, claims regarding other theological themes in Rahner’s thought—the
church, sacraments, eschatology, etc—derive from these basic claims.
Interestingly, Rahner also expands this short statement into three brief
creedal statements (theological, anthropological, and future-oriented) in the
last part of FCF (448-60), formulating them within a Trinitarian scheme. What I
want to do now is to enter the “gate of mysteries” that Rahner has opened for
us by using the steps provided in the above statements.

Self-Communication of the Absolute Mystery

Rahner’s transcendental theology is centered on the belief that human openness
to transcendence is founded in the pre-apprehension of the infinite reality or
the transcendent God. Thus, it is important for Rahner to caution his reader
not to confuse human transcendence with God’s transcendence.

Rahner’s basic position regarding God is that God is the “absolute” or “holy”
mystery. As absolute mystery, God is “incomprehensible and impenetrable”
(Rahner 1993, 45). However, human beings can know and relate to God insofar as
God, who has produced and created non-divine beings through “externalizing and
… giving” Godself (Rahner 1993, 47), allows us to know and relate to God. God
gives Godself through God’s self-communication. Moreover, in this self-bestowal
and self-communication God “becomes both giver and gift, and even more the
actual source of the human being’s own capacity to receive [God] as gift” (47).

This notion of God’s self-communication is so central in Rahner’s theology—it
appears explicitly in his three brief creedal statements—that apart from it one
cannot grasp any part of his views. Since God’s self-communication is directed
to human beings and the world, God is taken to be the origin and goal, arche
and telos, for both human beings and the world (84). Rahner eventually expands
the meaning of divine self-communication into four dyadic groups: “(a)
Origin—Future; (b) History—Transcendence; (c) Invitation—Acceptance; (d)
Knowledge—Love” (quoted in Burke 2002, 81-2).

In this context, Rahner distinguishes efficient causality from formal
causality. In efficient causality the effect is always different from the
cause. Rahner employs formal causality for explaining God’s self-communication,
in which God “does not originally cause and produce something different from
[Godself] in the creature, but rather…communicates [God’s] own divine reality
and makes it a constitutive element in the fulfillment of the creature” (FCF,
121). The result is that God does not lose God’s infinite reality and absolute
mystery and the creature does not cease to be a finite being. Consequently,
there is still a distance between God and the creature, but at the same
time—consistent with Rahner’s Ignatian sensibility—God can be found everywhere
in everyday reality.

By allowing distance from the creature, God makes space for human beings to
return to the transcendent self and to reach out (Vorgriff) to God’s
transcendence. It is called the “transcendental experience,” another key term
in Rahner’s system. This experience is called “transcendental” because it
creates the possibility of experience (in the Kantian sense), and because it
transcends something (i.e., human categorical experiences and historicity).
Thus, once again, we find here a typically Rahnerian Schwebe.

Grace within the Depth of Existence

We begin now with the first dimension of God’s self-communication, that is,
grace within the depth of existence. We have discussed what Rahner means by
“the depth of existence” or the analysis of human beings, which becomes the
point of departure in his theological system. I only need to add an important
point here regarding the issue of sin.

Sin

Rahner correlates “the depth of existence” to the notion of grace because there
is a circle of guilt and forgiveness that is experienced internally within
human existence. It is circular because every time human beings say “no” to God
in their freedom, it is also the time when they realize that God is not
judgmental but is offering loving forgiveness. They are, thus, invited to say
“yes” to God. For Rahner, the threat of sin is “really a permanent existential
which we can never eradicate in our single, temporal history” (FCF, 105). At
the same time, the “yes” is contained within each “no” in the sense that the
“yes” as the basis for the possibility of any self-assertion is always there,
even in the “no” In this context he reinterprets the notion of original sin. It
is called “original sin” because human beings have established guilt throughout
history. He rejects the traditional understanding of original sin as
biologically transmitted through Adam and Eve. Rather, original sin refers to
the fact that guilt is universal and ineradicable. This fact is evident since
every one is “co-determined” by others’ guilt as well as by the whole history
of wrongdoing. In this context, Rahner’s statement about grace as God’s
self-communication within the depth of human existence obtains its
significance.

Original sin, therefore, expresses nothing else but the historical origin of
the present, universal and ineradicable situation of our freedom as
co-determined by guilt, and this insofar as this situation has a history in
which, because of the universal determination of this history by guilt, God’s
self-communication in grace come to man not from “Adam,” not from the beginning
of the human race, but from the goal of this history, from the God-Man Jesus
Christ. (FCF, 114)

Grace and the Supernatural Existential

Rahner’s view of divine grace is made possible because we have congeniality for
receiving it. This is what he calls the “supernatural existential.” Rahner
distinguishes existential from existentiell, although both are inseparable and
refer to the same human finitude. While the former refers to the ontological
dimension, the latter to the everyday categorical dimension. When Rahner talks
about supernatural existential he criticizes both traditional scholasticism and
the nouvelle theologie (particularly of Henri de Lubac) of his own era. Here
Rahner enters the classical “nature and grace” debate within Catholic theology.
The neo-scholastics held to the view of extrinsicism, namely, an understanding
that God’s grace is imposed from outside on nature; whereas the theologians of
the nouvelle théologie emphasized the intrinsic orientation of nature to grace.
For the proponents of the nouvelle théologie (such as de Lubac), there is no
such thing as “pure nature” which then accepts grace; instead there is a
“natural desire” (Thomas’s desiderium naturale) within human nature for God.

Against both positions, Rahner argues that human beings as God’s partner have
to be able to receive God’s loving grace. Here he relies on the Thomistic
notion of obediential potency, which becomes the condition—or better, a
remainder concept (Restbegriff)—in the human existential constitution that has
been present before God offers grace, “even prior to sin” (FCF, 124). This
condition he calls the “supernatural existential.” In Rahner’s most-quoted
words, “God’s self-communication as offer is also the necessary condition which
makes its acceptance possible” (FCF 128). The end and goal of God’s grace,
finally, is that human beings receive the final vision of God (beatific
vision), which implies an ontological relationship between God and creatures.
Yet, it is not merely an ideal reality in the future. Rather, according to
Rahner, it is an historical experience, hic et nunc,

[I]n grace, that is, in the self-communication of God’s Holy Spirit, the event
of immediacy to God as man’s fulfillment is prepared for in such a way that we
must say of man here and now that he participates in God’s being; that he has
been given the divine Spirit who fathoms the depths of God; that he is already
God’s son here and now, and what he already is must only become manifest. (FCF,
120)

Jesus as God’s Self-Communication in History

The second dimension of God’s self-communication is through history that
culminates in Jesus Christ. But before examining Rahner’s Christological views
(Chapter VI of his FCF), we should pause a moment to review his profound
account of the meaning of the history of salvation and revelation (Chapter V).

Salvation History, World History and Revelation

Rahner’s basic thesis is that human history is the event of transcendence. This
is to say that through the supernatural existential—it “takes place” within or
“is mediated” by everyday history—human beings experience their
transcendentality. Only within this condition of human transcendence are human
beings enabled to experience and receive God’s self-communication through
historical mediation, which is called “salvation history.”

This basic argument leads Rahner to offer his second thesis, i.e., that the
history of salvation and the whole world history are co-existent. They are not
to be equated, since there is also the history of guilt within the world
history. Yet, they are also not to be separated, as if the history of salvation
is another extramundane reality unrelated to human concrete history.

With regard to the notion of revelation, Rahner maintains that the universal
history of salvation is also the history of revelation. He distinguishes two
kinds of revelation: universal-transcendental revelation and
special-categorical revelation. While the first refers to the experience of God
that could happen anywhere and for everyone, the latter is an expression of the
former within special and categorical ways, which culminates in the revelation
of Jesus Christ.

Anonymous Christians

Rahner’s views of the supernatural existential and of revelation become the
basis of his famous theory of “anonymous Christians.” On the one hand, God’s
salvific will is universal. This leads Rahner to say that there should be a
possibility for all persons to be saved. Yet, on the other hand, the Catholic
tradition holds a belief that salvation is possible only through faith in Jesus
Christ and the membership into the Church. For Rahner, this conflict is
solvable through the notions of the “supernatural existential,” as the
condition for all persons in their transcendentality to receive God’s grace and
“universal-transcendental revelation,” which becomes God’s self-communication
to all people as transcendent beings. Consequently, Rahner urges, those who do
not confess Jesus Christ explicitly and do not become members of the Catholic
Church, “must have the possibility of a genuine saving relation with God”
(Rahner 1993, 54) and therefore they are called “anonymous Christians.”

Christology

The task of Christology is to make intelligible the Christian faith that Jesus
of Nazareth, a historical person, is Christ as the center of all human history
and the final and full revelation of God to humanity. There are some
limitations of classic Christological formula suggested by the Council of
Chalcedon (451 A.D.) which claims "one identical Son, our Lord Jesus Christ . .
. perfect both in his divinity and in his humanity. . . [with] two natures
without any commingling or change or division or separation . . . united in one
person" (Hentz 1991, 110). Rahner feels that it does not reflect on "the
contemporary mentality which sees the world from an evolutionary point of view"
(Rahner 1978, 206) by focusing on the person of Christ in his unique
individuality and ignoring any possibility of combining the event of Christ
with the process of human history as a whole. Furthermore, the Chalcedon
formula adopted strange philosophical concepts such as nature and hypostatic
union which are no longer used to explain and interpret our experiences. Thus,
Rahner introduces transcendental Christology which interprets the event and
person of Christ in relation to the essential structure of the human person,
reflecting on the essential conditions of all human experiences, conditions
which transcend any one, particular kind of experience (Rahner, 206-12). Before
beginning with his transcendental Christology, it will be helpful for us to
look at his basic insights on Christology within an evolutionary view of the
world.

According to Rahner, Christian faith claims that all things in the world come
from the one same origin, God. It means that in spite of their differences,
there is "an inner similarity and commonality" among things, which forms a
single world. This commonality is most clearly disclosed in a human being in a
form of the unity of spirit and matter. In other words, it is only in a human
person that spirit and matter can be experienced in their real essence and in
their unity. Spirit is a unique mode of existence of a single person when that
person becomes conscious of him/herself and is always oriented towards the
incomprehensible Mystery called God. But it is only in the free acceptance by
the human subject of this mystery and in its unpredictable disposal of the
subject that he or she can genuinely undertake this process of returning to him
/herself and of being oriented towards. On the other hand, matter is the
condition which makes human beings estranged from themselves towards other
objects in the world and makes possible an immediate intercommunication with
other spiritual creatures in time and space. Of course, there is an essential
difference between spirit and matter, but not understood as an essential
opposition. The relationship between the two can be said as "the intrinsic
nature of matter to develop towards spirit" (Rahner, 184). This kind of
becoming from matter to spirit can be called as self-transcendence which "can
be only understood as taking place by the power of the absolute fullness of
being" (Rahner, 185).

Furthermore, as Rahner asserts, the evolutionary view of the world allows us to
consider that humanity is nothing but the latest stage of the
self-transcendence of matter. If a human being is the self-transcendence of
living matter, one can say that "the history of nature and of spirit form an
intrinsic and stratified unity in which the history of nature develops towards
man, continues on in him as his history, is preserved and surpassed in him, and
therefore reaches its own goal with and in the history of man's spirit" whose
"goal consists in the infinite fullness of God" but "hidden from and beyond the
power of man himself" (Rahner, 187-8). It is in a human being where the nature
becomes conscious of itself. It is in a human being where the specific
characteristic of the reality which are "his presence to himself and his
relationship to the absolute totality of reality" comes to be (Rahner, 189).
The uniqueness of the status of a human being in the cosmos is that this cosmic
self-consciousness takes places in its own unique way in each individual
person. And if the evolution explained in this way has any ultimate and one-way
direction at all, this process must also have a final result and it must exist.
Christian faith claims that the cosmos reaches its final fulfillment when it
receives the immediate self-communication of its own ground in the spiritual
creatures which are its goal and its high point (Rahner, 190). In this sense,
Rahner asserts that God's self-communication to the world is the final goal of
the world and that the process of self-transcendence makes the world already
directed towards this self-communication and its acceptance by the world
(Rahner, 192). What, then, is the place of Christ in this whole process of
self-transcendence of the world?

According to Rahner, the whole process of the self-consciousness of cosmos has
always and necessarily to do with the process of the intercommunication of
spiritual subjects for otherwise, there is no way to retain the unity of the
process. God's self-communication is given to cosmic subjects who have freedom
to accept or reject it and who have intercommunication with other existents. It
takes place only if the subjects freely accept it, and only then forms a common
history in a sense that "it is addressed to all men in their
intercommunication" (Rahner, 193). The event of God's self-communication is
definitely a historical event in time and space, which is then "addressed to
others as a call to their freedom" (Rahner, 193). In this sense, Rahner claims
that "God's self-communication must have a permanent beginning and in this
beginning a guarantee that it has taken place, a guarantee by which it can
rightly demand a free decision to accept this divine self-communication"
(Rahner, 193). In this scheme, the saviour refers to a historical person "who
signifies the beginning of the absolute self-communication of God which is
moving towards its goal, that beginning which indicates that this
self-communication for everyone has taken place irrevocably and has been
victoriously inaugurated" (Rahner, 193). Hypostatic union, therefore, occurs in
an intrinsic moment when God's self-communication and its acceptance by that
person are met, and this union is open to all spiritual creatures with the
bestowal of grace. In order to be fulfilled, this event should have "a concrete
tangibility in history" (Rahner, 201). Now, it is time to turn back to Rahner's
project of a transcendental Christology.

According to Rahner, a transcendental Christology "presupposes an understanding
of the relationship of mutual conditioning and mediation in human existence
between what is transcendentally necessary and what is concretely and
contingently historical" (Rahner, 208). It is a kind of relationship between
the two elements in such a way that "the transcendental element is always an
intrinsic condition of the historical element in the historical self" while "in
spite of its being freely posited, the historical element co-determines
existence in an absolute sense" (Rahner, 208). What is the starting point for a
transcendental Christology? Rahner claims that it is "the experiences which man
always and inescapably has" (Rahner, 208). What, then, are these experiences
that a human being always have? How does Rahner develop his transcendental
Christology? First, a human being was created to freely transcend himself or
herself and objects in the world towards the incomprehensible Mystery called
God. Secondly, the limitations of human situation make a human being hope that
the full meaning of humanity and the unity of everything in the world will be
fulfilled by God's self-giving. Thirdly, God's self-communication and human
hope for it should be "mediated historically" because of "the unity of
transcendentality and historicity in human existence" (Rahner, 210). Fourthly,
the human hope looks in history for its salvation from God that "becomes final
and irreversible, and is the end in an 'eschatological' sense" (Rahner, 211).
Here Rahner suggests two possibilities of human salvation either as
"fulfillment in an absolute sense" which means the establishment of the Kingdom
of God on earth or as "a historical event within history" (Rahner, 211).
Lastly, the event of human salvation by God's self-giving love should be the
event of a human person because God's salvific love can only be effective in
history when a person freely accepts his love, surrenders everything to God in
death and in death is accepted by God (Rahner, 211). Here, Rahner makes a
significant claim with respect to the character of the savior as exemplary and
absolute:

We are presupposing here the anti-individualistic conviction that, given the
unity of the world and of history from the view point of both God and the
world, such an "individual" destiny has "exemplary" significance for the world
as a whole. Such a man with this destiny is what is meant by an "absolute
saviour. (Rahner, 211)

Strangely enough, Rahner says that the task of a transcendental Christology is
not to claim that this savior "has been found precisely in Jesus of Nazareth"
because it "belong[s] to the experience of history itself which cannot be
deduced" (Rahner, 211), but that it "allows one to search for, and in his
search to understand, what he has already found in Jesus of Nazareth" (Rahner
212).

Rahner feels that the savior described by his transcendental Christology is not
different from the one expressed by the classic Christological formulations of
Chalcedon which used a concept of hypostatic union to claim Jesus as the
Christ. Then, the next task for Rahner is to articulate the meaning of the
hypostatic union.

What does it mean to say that God became man? Does it mean that God is dressed
up as a man or as a strange mixture of the divine and the human? Here the issue
again is how to understand the meaning of being a human being. Rahner
understands the phrase became man as assuming an individual human nature as
God's own. At this point, one may raise a question about how God become
something other than Godhead for God is the immutable One who is not subject to
change. Rahner escapes from this dilemma by emphasizing "the self-emptying of
God, his becoming, the kenosis and genesis of God himself" (Rahner, 222). He
says that

He can become insofar as, in establishing the other which comes from him, he
himself becomes what has come from him, without having to become in his own and
original self. Insofar as in his abiding and infinite fullness he empties
himself, the other comes to be as God's very own reality. . . . God "assumes by
creating" and also "creates by assuming,"" that is, he creates by emptying
himself, and therefore, of course, he himself is in the emptying. He creates
the human reality by the very fact that he assumes it as his own. (Rahner, 222)

God's creating-by-emptying act belongs to God's power and freedom as the
absolute One and to God's self-giving love expressed in scripture (Rahner,
222). Therefore, it is legitimate for Rahner to assert that God "who is not
subject to change in himself can himself be subject to change in something
else" (Rahner, 220). This is what the doctrine of the Incarnation teaches us:
"in and in spite of his immutability he can truly become something: he himself,
he in time" (Rahner, 221).

What, then, does it mean to say that God assumes a human nature as God's own
reality? For Rahner, human beings are created to be oriented towards the
incomprehensible Mystery called God. But, this human orientation towards the
Mystery can be fully grasped only if we as humans freely choose to be grasped
by the incomprehensible One. If God assumes human nature as God's own reality
with God's irrevocable offer of God's self-communication, and a person freely
accepts it, the person is united with God, reaching the very point towards
which humanity is always moving by virtue of its essence, a God-Man which is
fully fulfilled in the person of Jesus of Nazareth claimed by Christian faith.
In this sense, Rahner sees the incarnation of God as "the unique and highest
instance of the actualization of the essence of human reality" (Rahner, 218).

The next question is this: how do we find a God-Man in history? To answer it,
Rahner employs a historical approach to Christology by examining the history of
the life and death of Jesus of Nazareth. Before doing it, Rahner sets two
theses: 1) Christian faith requires historical foundation; and 2) taking into
account a possibility of significant difference between who the person is and
the extent to which he or she verbalizes or expresses his or her identity, it
is possible both to say that "the self-understanding of the pre-resurrection
Jesus may not contradict in an historical sense the Christian understanding of
his person and his salvific significance," and to say that his
self-understanding may not coincides with the content of Christological faith
(Rahner, 236).

Rahner introduces two theses which should be proven as historically credible in
order to establish the grounds of Christian faith: 1) Jesus saw himself "as the
eschatological prophet, as the absolute and definitive saviour" and 2) the
resurrection of Jesus is the absolute self-communication of God (Rahner,
245-6). According to Rahner, there are several elements in historical knowledge
of Jesus concerning his identity as a Jew and "radical reformer", his radical
behavior in solidarity with social and religious outcasts based on his belief
in God, his radical preaching "as a call to conversion", his gathering
disciples, his hope for conversions of others, his acceptance of death on the
cross "as the inevitable consequence of fidelity to his mission" (Rahner,
247-8). These historical elements signifies Jesus' self-understanding as the
eschatological prophet in terms of his claim of "imminent expectation", his
preaching on the Kingdom of God "as the definitive proclamation of salvation",
"the connection between the message and the person of Jesus", his free
acceptance of death on the cross, and his miracle as a call to conversion
(Rahner, 249-264).

With regard to the death and resurrection of Jesus, Rahner asserts that the
death and the resurrection of Jesus are nothing but two aspects of a single
event which can not be separated (Rahner, 266). But the resurrection is not a
historical event in time and place like the death of Jesus. There is only a
resurrection faith of the disciples as "a unique fact" (Rahner, 274). What the
scriptural witness offers are powerful encounters in which the disciples come
to experience the spirit of the risen Lord Jesus in their midst. The
resurrection, in this sense, is not a return to life in the temporal sphere but
signifies the seal of God the Father upon all that Jesus stood for and preached
in his pre-Easter life. "By the resurrection, . . . Jesus is vindicated as the
absolute saviour" by God (Rahner, 279). It means that "this death as entered
into in free obedience and as surrendering life completely to God reaches
fulfillment and becomes historically tangible for us only in the resurrection"
(Rahner, 284). In the resurrection, the life and death of Jesus are understood
as "the cause of God's salvific will" (Rahner, 284). He also opens the door to
our salvation: "we are saved because this man who is one of us has been saved
by God, and God has thereby made his salvific will present in the world
historically, really and irrevocably" (Rahner, 284). In this sense, Jesus of
Nazareth becomes a God-Man, the absolute saviour.

Rahner's transcendental Christology opens another horizon which includes
non-Christian religions. God's universal saving will in Christ extends to
non-Christians. Because Christ is the savior of all people, salvation for
non-Christians comes only through Christ (anonymous Christians). On the other
hand, it is possible to say that Christians can learn from other religions or
atheistic humanism because God's' grace is and can be operative in them
(Schineller 1991, 102). How is the presence of Christ in other religions?
Christ is present and operative in and through his Spirit (Rahner, 316). How
and where do non-Christians respond to the grace of God? Here, Rahner suggest
"the unreflexive and 'searching Christology'" (searching "memory" of the
absolute saviour) present in the hearts of all persons (Rahner, 295, 318).
Three attitudes or actions are involved: 1) an absolute love towards neighbors
; 2) an attitude of readiness for death; and 3) an attitude of hope for the
future (Rahner, 295-298). If a person is actually practicing them, it is only
because that person is acting from and responding to the grace of God that was
fully manifest in the life of Jesus.

Descending, Ascending, and Transcendental Christologies

The chapter on Christology in FCF occupies more than one third of all pages of
the book, which gives the strong impression that Christology is central to
Rahner’s theology.

In his FCF, Rahner employs the classical distinction between ascending and
descending Christologies—from below and from above. His
transcendental-anthropological theology allows him to take an ascending
Christology, focused on the historical Jesus, as his point of departure. The
descending Christology, on the other hand, is the end of all Christological
reflection. He says, “If Jesus as the Christ has ever actually encountered
someone, the idea of God-Man, of God coming into our history, and hence a
descending Christology, also has its own significance and power” (FCF, 177).
However, both types of Christology are intermingled and inseparable. What ties
them together is his conception of transcendental Christology, which points to
Jesus Christ, the God-Man, the absolute Savior, in whom God’s acceptance of
human beings has become an event. Transcendental Christology, in George Vass’s
words, is “sandwiched” between the two types of Christology (Vass 1996, 86).

Immanent Trinity and Economic Trinity

The last of Rahner’s brief statements deals with his Trinitarian theology. He
says, “[The self-communication of God] already includes the mystery of the
Trinity in the economy of salvation and of the immanent Trinity.” (FCF, 12)
Catherine M. LaCugna defines both terms in this helpful passage.

The phrase “economic Trinity” refers to the three “faces” or manifestations of
God’s activity in the world … In particular, economic Trinity denotes the
missions, the being sent by God, of Son, and Spirit in the work of redemption
and deification … The phrase “immanent Trinity” … points to the life and work
of God in the economy, but from an “immanent” point of view. (LaCugna 1973,
211)

In his book, The Trinity, Rahner takes the Incarnation as the point of
departure (Rahner 1970, 24-33), whereas in FCF he places the discussion of the
Trinity within the chapter on God’s self-communication (cf. FCF, 133-4). In
both books, however, he expresses his dissatisfaction with both official
formulation of the Trinity and any psychological theory of the Trinity. While
the former is accused as having led to many confusion and misunderstandings,
the latter “neglects the experience of the Trinity in the economy of salvation
in favor of a seemingly almost Gnostic speculation about what goes on in the
inner life of God [i.e., the immanent Trinity]” (FCF, 135).

Rahner’s basic trinitarian axiom is famous: “The ‘economic’ Trinity is the
‘immanent’ Trinity and the ‘immanent’ Trinity is the ‘economic’ Trinity” (1970,
22). As in his Christological position, Rahner’s Trinitarian theology also
starts “from below” (LaCugna 1973, 216). Thus, there is a conceptual transition
from economic to immanent Trinity. The logic behind this transition is
supported by his view that “in God’s self communication to his creation through
grace [within the depth of existence] and Incarnation [within history] God
really gives himself, and really appears as he is in himself” (FCF, 136;
italics mine).

4. Outline of Major Works

[Forthcoming]

5. Relation to Other Thinkers

Karl Rahner is undoubtedly the most important Roman Catholic theologian in the
twentieth century. His seminal position among his contemporaries results to
some extent from his ability to put theology and philosophy into dialogue. His
anthropological point of departure is also a convincing starting point for
theology today, especially in the context of the modern-postmodern conflict
over the nature of the self. Rahner is also adept at engaging the Catholic
tradition, especially the Thomist tradition, although he would not have wanted
to be labeled a traditionalist. As he said, “I consider myself a sincere and
profound friend of St. Thomas. I do not, however, agree with those Thomists who
are so locked into traditionalism that they can’t imagine that any progress can
be made independently of traditional Thomism” (Rahner, Imhof & Biallowons 1991,
155).

6. Bibliography and Cited Works

Burke, Patrick. 2002. Reinterpreting Rahner: A Critical Study of His Major
Themes. New York: Fordham University Press.

Carr, Anne. 1977. The Theological Method of Karl Rahner. Missoula, Montana:
Scholars Press.

Egan, Harvey D. 1998. Karl Rahner: The Mystic of Everyday Life. New York: The
Crossroad Publishing Company.

Fiorenza, Francis S. 2000. “Chapter Seven: The New Theology and Transcendental
Thomism.” In James C. Livingstone, et all. Modern Christian Theology. Vol. II:
The Twentieth Century.

Hentz, Otto H. 1991. "Anticipating Jesus Christ: An Account of Our Hope." In A
World of Grace: An Introduction to the Themes and Foundations of Karl Rahner's
Theology. Ed. by Leo J. O'Donovan. New York: The Crossroad Publishing Company.

Kelley, Geffrey B., ed. 1992. Karl Rahner: Theologian of the Graced Search for
Meaning. Minneapolis: Fortress Press.

Kilby, Karen. 2004. Karl Rahner: Theology and Philosophy. London & New York:
Routledge.

Kress, Robert. 1982. A Rahner Handbook. Atlanta: John Knox Press.

LaCugna, Catherine M. 1973. God for Us: The Trinity and Christian Life. New
York: HarperSanFranscisco.

Rahner, Karl. 1954-1984. Schriften zur Theologie. 16 volumes. Einsiedeln:
Benziger Verlag.

Rahner, Karl. 1968. Spirit in the World. Revised edition by J.B. Metz.
Translated by William V. Dych. [Translation of Geist im Welt: Zur Metaphisik
der endlichen Erkenntnis bei Thomas von Aquin. Innsbruck: Verlag Felizian
Rauch, 1939;  2^nd ed. Revised by J.B. Metz. München: Kösel-Verlag, 1957] New
York: Herder and Herder.

Rahner, Karl. 1969. Hearers of the Word. Revised edition by J.B. Metz.
Translated by Michael Richards. [Translation of Hörer des Wortes: Zur
Grundlegung einer Religionsphilosophie. München: Verlag Kösel-Pustet, 1941] New
York: Herder and Herder.

Rahner, Karl. 1970. The Trinity. Translated by Joseph Donceel. New York: Herder
and Herder.

Rahner, Karl. 1978, 1987. Foundations of Christian Faith: An Introduction to
the Idea of Christianity. Translated by William V. Dych. [Translation of
Grundkurs des Glaubens: Einführung in den Begriff des Christentums. Freiburg:
Verlag Herder, 1976] New York: The Seabury Press; New York: Crossroad.

Rahner, Karl. 1993. Content of Faith: The Best of Karl Rahner Theological
Writings. New York: Crossroad.

Rahner, Karl, with Paul Imhof & Hubert Biallowons, eds. 1990. Faith in a Wintry
Season: Conversations and Interviews With Karl Rahner in the Last Years of His
Life. New York: Crossroad.

Schineller, J. Peter. 1991. "Discovering Jesus Christ: A History We Share." In
A World of Grace: An Introduction to the Themes and Foundations of Karl
Rahner's Theology. Ed. by Leo J. O'Donovan. New York: The Crossroad Publishing
Company.

Thomas Aquinas. 1947. Summa Theologica. Tr. Fathers of the English Dominican
Province. Internet: http://www.ccel.org/a/aquinas/summa/home.html.

Tillich, Paul. 1950. Systematic Theology. Vol. I: Reason and Revelation—Being
and God. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

Vass, George. 1996. A Pattern of Christian Doctrines. Part I: God and Christ.
London: Sheed & Ward.

Vorgrimler, Herbert. 1986. Understanding Karl Rahner: An Introduction to His
Life and Thought. New York: Crossroad.

7. Internet Resources

Karl Rahner Society

Materialien zum Werk Karl Rahners, 1904-1984

8. Related Topics

[Forthcoming]

 

Editor: Derek Michaud, incorporating material by Joas Adiprasetya (2005), Phil
LaFountain (1999), and JeeHo Kim (1999).

 

The information on this page is copyright ©1994 onwards, Wesley Wildman (basic
information here), unless otherwise noted. If you want to use ideas that you
find here, please be careful to acknowledge this site as your source, and
remember also to credit the original author of what you use, where that is
applicable. If you want to use text or stories from these pages, please contact
me at the feedback address for permission.

