SchoolGates

St Mary's Primary

Rushworth

Phone: (03) 5856 1347
Fax: (03) 5856 1851

SMR-Logo-Small

Email: This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript
enabled to view it.

Caring for the whole child

  • Home
  • About Us
      □ Our Vision
      □ Graduate Outcomes
      □ Our Location
  • Curriculum
      □ Philosophy of Learning
      □ Curriculum
      □ Programs
  • Community
      □ School Leadership
      □ NSCSWP
  • Downloads
  • Contact Us

Welcome to Our Website

A very warm welcome to the St Mary’s Primary School community website. We are a
welcoming, supportive community which aims to provide the very best learning
experiences for all students.

Our school is a faith community, which includes our Parish Priest,
Father Balaraju Policetty, parents, staff, students and others who service us. 
Our school community is based on the teachings of Jesus Christ and Christian
values permeate every aspect of school life. St Mary of the Cross’ values are
integral to our school life as are the Sandhurst School Values.

St Mary's prides itself on quality teaching and learning, relationship
building, community partnerships and living in light of the Gospel.  

St Mary’s staff assist and support parents in what they have begun at home and
work in partnership with them to ensure that their child 'learns to love and
loves to learn'. St Mary’s staff have the interest of each student at heart,
and continually endeavour to see that everything possible is done for the
student’s growth and development.

St Mary’s Primary School is committed to providing the best Learning and
Teaching environment possible so that all students become life long learners
and reach their full potential: spiritually, socially, emotionally, physically
and intellectually.   

We look forward to sharing your child's journey.

St Mary's Primary School - Caring for the Whole Child

Principal: Catherine Fraser                                                    
                                                                               
                               

Parish Priest: Fr Pompeyo Tan

Catholic Education, Sandhurst


         The Sandhurst Catholic Education Office and
         Schools acknowledge the traditional
         custodians of the land on which their Offices
CEOSLOGO and Schools are built. We commit to working   KanePaintingStongerSmall
         in partnership with Aboriginal people for
         reconciliation and justice.

         Believe !     Imagine !     Serve !

  • Sitemap
  • Login

