bg image(http://www.cin.org/cintil2.gif)
[bar06]

                                        

                                        

        bg image(http://www.cin.org/cintil2.gif)

        [bar2]

         

        [thomas-becket-murder]The Murder of Becket

        Alfred Duggan

        ● See also St. Thomas of Canterbury

        The murder of St. Thomas, Archbishop of Canterbury, in his own
        cathedral on December 29, 1170, shocked contemporaries in an age
        that was relatively used to deeds of violence. The dramatic scene is
        thus reconstructed by the historical novelist Alfred Duggan in his
        novel devoted to the Saint. His account is based upon authentic
        contemporary reports.

        A bell sounded from the Cathedral. Prior Robert turned in triumph to
        his lord. "That is the summons to Vespers. See, the monks form in
        pro cession; as they should, for the divine office is the highest
        duty in the world, to be carried out even in the midst of
        catastrophe. I shall join them, since I am absent from my own
        community. You, my lord, should come also. You are Abbot of Christ
        Church, and you should attend the regular office."

        Thomas permitted himself to be led to the cloister door, half pushed
        by the eager throng. He had a new plan, but he must keep it a
        secret.

        Henry's knights would kill him; there was no sure way of escape, and
        the bare chance of hurried flight was too ignominious to be risked.
        But his duty to the flock in his care demanded that the murderers
        should find him and kill him alone; otherwise they would go on to
        kill all his companions. Therefore he must leave this crowded hall
        and meet death in the cloisters. It was as simple as the answer to a
        problem of logic in the schools.

        Though he would appear to be seeking the Cathedral, he must take I
        care not to reach it. Shed blood pollutes a church; if he were
        killed on its pavement the great shrine would be desecrated, a place
        unfit for the I Sacrifice of the Mass. He would delay in the
        cloister until he was over taken, alone.

        The early dark of December had already fallen. At the black entrance
        to the cloister he halted, leaning back until his companions ceased
        to push him. "I will attend Vespers," he said in a level voice, "but
        in the proper state of my rank. Where is my cross? It must be
        carried before me."

        "But you sent Herbert of Bosham off with a letter, only this
        morning," expostulated Prior Robert. "Ah, there's the cross. Henry
        of Auxerre has it. Let him bear it, since your cross-bearer is
        away."

        "Yes, that will do. There is no hurry. These monks are too timid,
        like all monks. But remember: it is not fitting that a church should
        be polluted with the blood of a sinner. Whatever comes must be borne
        with patience."

        The great iron-bound outer door shuddered under heavy blows. A moan
        of terror rose from the far end of the hall as the lath-and-plaster
        partition fell in and an armed figure appeared in the breach. He
        wore complete mail, so that his face was entirely hidden by the
        great helm resting on his shoulders; he still carried the hatchet
        with which he had hewn down the party wall, and behind him another
        armed figure pressed forward.

        While the company shuddered at this first sight of naked steel
        Thomas was chiefly interested to identify his assailants. At dinner
        he had noted their faces as vaguely familiar, seen before among the
        knights of the King's household; but he could recognize every blazon
        of Normandy and England. To him men in great helms, with painted
        shields before them, were more clearly labeled than if they had been
        bareheaded.

        "Gules, a bear argent, muzzled sable," he muttered to himself. "That
        is Reginald fitzUrse. The man behind him bears Broc with a label of
        cadency; he must be the Robert de Broc who cut off the tail of my
        horse."

        There was something familiar about fitzUrse, or why did he at once
        remember his Christian name? Of course, he was one of the vassals of
        Canterbury. That was too much. Thomas felt the blood hammering in
        his temples, and his hand groped for the sword-hilt which once had
        rested on his hip. Here was a vassal come in arms to murder the lord
        to whom he had sworn homage! FitzUrse was recreant! He must be told
        so, to his face, in the hearing of as many witnesses as possible.

        Meanwhile there was no excuse for further delay. He stepped into the
        cloister, and at once saw that chance had intervened to keep him
        from the consecrated sanctuary of the Cathedral. That was all for
        the best. Now he would certainly die in the open, under the
        unconsecrated sky.

        For the usual passage to the Cathedral, left-handed round the
        cloister, was filled with armed men, the brigands of Saltwood who
        had ridden in with the knights. The right-hand passage appeared to
        offer another way, but Thomas remembered that a disused door of the
        servants' dormitory lay round the corner, a door that was always
        locked. The procession must halt when they reached it.

        Within the Cathedral it was already dark, save where candles glowed
        on the choir stalls; the great west door stood open, and the fifty
        or so choir-monks standing in their places glanced anxiously into
        the gloom outside. The chant rose and fell raggedly as nervous men
        questioned their neighbors in whispers. Most of these choir-monks
        had dined as usual in the Abbey refectory, and walked in procession
        to their accustomed places; but, as was customary, a few had dined
        in the palace as guests of the Archbishop, and when they hurried in
        they brought with them a spate of disturbing rumors.

        The King had sent an army to kill his Archbishop, sack the
        Cathedral, and cut the throats of all the monks in England. That was
        the least alarming version. Others spoke of having left the
        Archbishop weltering in gore at his own table. Even the
        level-headed, who kept their eyes on their psalters and their ears
        alert to the cadence of the chant, knew that armed men were
        mustering outside; for they could hear the trampling of horses and
        see the gleam of torches reflected from mail. Good monks should be
        ever prepared for martyrdom, and the Prior kept them to their task;
        but they looked imploringly into the friendly darkness of clerestory
        and aisle.

        Into this ordered ritual, which had continued in Canterbury for more
        than four hundred years, suddenly burst a shattering interruption.
        Two scullions, laymen who worked in the monastic kitchen and lodged
        in the loft above the cloister, dashed through the disused servants'
        entrance to shout that the King's men were killing the Archbishop
        just behind them. They had unbarred the outer door of their
        quarters, to offer a chance of escape to any fugitives. The chant
        ceased, and the monks left their stalls to peer through the narrow
        door by which the scullions had entered.

        Through this mean little door came the metropolitan cross of
        Canterbury, still borne by Henry of Auxerre. Then two by two the
        clerks of the Archbishop's household, walking hurriedly but not
        actually in flight. Last of all, with Grim and Prior Robert pulling
        at his arms, the Archbishop himself stood on the threshold, glancing
        behind him and clearly reluctant to come further. Beyond, in the
        gloom of the open cloister, which was not quite so dark as the nave
        of the Cathedral, the watchers could see a group of armed men,
        hesitating by the door of the palace.

        As the Archbishop was hustled into the Cathedral the Prior of Christ
        Church ordered the doors to be closed and barred. The same thought
        was in every mind: if King Henry had sent his household knights to
        murder the Archbishop, they might hesitate to carry out their orders
        if it meant the desecration of the Mother Church of England; and if,
        as was more likely, this was an unauthorized act of private revenge,
        the Sheriff of Kent or the sergeants of the Young King might arrive
        before the doors were battered in.

        But the Archbishop countermanded the order of his Prior. "The House
        of God should not be made a castle," he protested. "I command you,
        under holy obedience, to open those doors."

        Hearing that invocation, no son of St. Benedict could disobey his
        abbot. The doors were flung open to the night....

        Within the Cathedral the monks were scattering, seeking dark corners
        in crypt or clerestory where they might escape the massacre. Henry
        of Auxerre, leaning on the great metropolitan cross which he had
        been commanded to carry, tried to discern the bearing of the leader
        who stood beside him. In the murk he could see nothing of his face;
        but his figure had stiffened, so that his great height would make
        him unmistakable in any crowd. What was worse, the Archbishop was
        not attempting to hide; instead he made a stately and unhurried
        genuflexion, and began to walk eastward toward the High Altar.

        With a sob of sheer misery Henry of Auxerre pushed the cross from
        him and took to his heels. As it swayed, the silver pole flashed in
        the candlelight, and Grim of Cambridge caught it before it could
        touch the ground.

        Holding the cross erect in both hands, Grim marched with dignity
        toward the High Altar, the first in a little procession of four:
        behind came William fitzStephen and Prior Robert of Merton, and last
        of all the Archbishop. They had reached the steps leading from the
        north transept to the choir when the doorway behind them was
        suddenly filled with armed men.

        "Where is Tom Becket?" called a mocking voice. "Where is Tom the
        Londoner? Where is Tom of Cheapside? Where is Tom the son of the
        drysalter?" The gloating voice continued its insults. Then someone
        shouted, more seriously: "Where is the traitor, the Archbishop of
        Canterbury?"

        Thomas recognized that voice. It came from Reginald fitzUrse, his
        sworn vassal. The indignity that such a felon should shout after
        him, a felon who drew his sword on his own lord, was more than he
        could endure. He turned to shout back: "Here am I, no traitor, but
        priest and Archbishop." . . .

        "What do you seek of your lord, Reginald my vassal?" he called
        contemptuously. The answer came from several throats: "Absolve the
        bishops, or you die."

        "I choose death," said Thomas readily; then his long training in the
        schools asserted itself, and a little speech followed, composed
        without conscious thought in his excited mind.

        "I accept death in the name of the Lord, and I commend my soul and
        the cause of the Church to God and Blessed Mary and the Patron
        Saints of Canterbury. But by the authority God has given me I forbid
        you to harm my followers."

        As he spoke he turned aside to stand before a little altar of Our
        Lady, cut off from the nave of the long church by a low party wall.

        Four knights, faceless in their great helms, loomed over him in the
        dark; they held their shields high, and their swords were raised.
        Before the terrible menace of those anonymous figures William
        fitzStephen and Prior Robert flinched away, to melt into the gloom.
        Only Grim of Cambridge remained by his lord, holding aloft the
        metropolitan cross as though it were a standard on a hard-fought
        field.

        The very air of the Cathedral reeked with the scent of fear, for the
        great building was full of frightened men. Only Thomas, and Grim his
        squire, confronted death with unmoved hearts. The attacking knights
        were as frightened as any monk; they had blundered into a position
        where the King's law would hang them, and at the same time they
        imperiled their immortal souls. Reginald fitzUrse, snatching at a
        last chance of pardon, still sought to win the King's favor by
        capturing the Archbishop alive, even at this eleventh hour. He threw
        down the hatchet which hampered his shield arm, and as he came
        within reach launched a swinging blow with the flat of his sword.

        The Archbishop's skull cap fluttered to the ground, but the blow had
        missed its mark. Thomas still stood erect and defiant.

        Three knights closed round him, tugging at his cowl to lift him
        bodily onto the shoulders of Tracy, who waited with bent back to
        carry him from the Cathedral. Grim seized him from behind, and the
        whole group wrestled together, grunting. Suddenly Thomas, that
        statue of Christian suffering, came to violent life. With both hands
        he caught fitzUrse by the skirts of his mail, pushing so strongly
        that his enemies staggered back

        For a moment he stood alone, save for Grim crouched at his back
        "Reginald, you pander," he growled through set teeth, "you have
        struck the lord to whom you swore service!"

        FitzUrse answered doggedly: "I owe you no service against the
        service I owe to the King my liege lord." It was the excuse that had
        beaten through his brain since he left Normandy, his only excuse for
        the supreme crime against knighthood, a crime much worse than the
        mere murder of an unarmed clerk. Presently the King would forgive
        and reward him, and after that he would be free of reproach.

        "Realz!" the attackers shouted again, to hold their courage to the
        sticking point. "In the Lord's battle I shall fight it out toe to
        toe!" answered Thomas, in the clarion voice of a knight calling his
        war cry. "Out, Holy Cross!" added Grim in English, as his
        grandfather had long ago cried at Hastings.

        Reginald heard movement at his back, and stole a hasty glance over
        his shoulder. There was no time to lose. The great west porch was
        filling with townsfolk, unarmed burgesses who feared to oppose
        mailed knights, but who might intervene if some brave man gave them
        a lead. The attackers were experienced warriors, and Hugh de
        Morville ran back, unasked, to hold the nave against rescue until
        the deed was done.

        As swords swung aloft for the kill Thomas raised his hands to his
        eyes. His racing brain showed him a little picture of all this
        happening a long way off, to little figures who were knights,
        clerks, and an archbishop; the mannikin of an archbishop must play
        his part worthily so long as he, Thomas, could control his actions.
        But no warrior trained in swordcraft, as he had been trained at
        Pevensey, could watch a sword descend on his head without dodging or
        throwing up an arm to parry. If he was to meet his doom erect he
        must cover his eyes.

        He felt a smarting rap on the crown of his head, right across his
        priestly tonsure. It did not seem to be death, though that could not
        long be delayed. His brain was still working with astonishing
        clarity, and he commended his soul to St. Denys and St. Alphege,
        choosing without hesitation from the whole Calendar two saints who
        were his peers as Martyrs and Archbishops.

        The first blow, struck by fitzUrse, had failed because Grim
        interposed the metropolitan cross to parry it; but the English clerk
        was not a trained swordsman, and he held the cross aslant; the sword
        glanced down the staff to bury itself in his arm. Grim fell to the
        ground, still grasping the cross with a hand from which blood
        spouted.

        Then Tracy swung his sword again and again, and at the third stroke
        Thomas pitched forward. A last shred of consciousness reminded him
        that he was an archbishop in the act of martyrdom. "For the Holy
        Name of Jesus and the safety of His Church I offer myself to death,"
        he murmured. His legs groped as he gathered them under his cowl,
        that his body might lie decently until men came to carry it to
        burial.

        Reginald leaned on his sword, breathing hard. This was not what he
        had planned, but perhaps it might please the King. Anyway, they were
        all in it together. Then he recalled that Richard le Breton had not
        struck a blow; an eyewitness who bore no guilt for the murder might
        afford inconvenient evidence. "Strike," he murmured, laying a hand
        on Richard's shoulder; and Tracy added, "Strike, or lie with the
        Archbishop."

        Richard le Breton heaved up his sword. It was hard to hate that
        crumpled figure on the stone pavement, but he summoned up again the
        grievance which had brought him from Normandy. "Take this," he
        shouted "for love of the King's brother, who died of grief because
        you forbade his marriage."

        Impelled by hysterical rage, his sword smashed through the skull,
        striking the pavement with such force that the point snapped from
        the blade. With an oath, Richard flung the useless weapon to lie by
        the shattered body.

        The murderers lingered by the corpse. It was hard to imagine that
        this messy bundle of rags and torn flesh was Thomas, the great
        Chancellor, the gallant knight, the skillful falconer, the holy
        Archbishop; he might yet get up to denounce them. Then from the
        shadows of the west porch stepped Hugh of Horsea, the brigand clerk
        who was known as the Evil Deacon. He had followed the murderers
        because he delighted in murder. With the point of his sword he
        scrabbled inside the smashed cup of the skull, scattering white
        brains on the pavement.

        Presently the Cathedral was quite silent; until the sacristan crept
        out from under a choir stall to remove, as reverently as his shaking
        hands would permit, the pyx which might not remain in this
        desecrated House of God.

         

        Courtesy of Catholic Information Network (CIN)
        Sponsored by St. Gabriel Gift & Book Nook
        Image copyright Art Today
        12/12/2000
         

                                                                               

         

       
        [counter]

      Courtesy of Catholic Information Network (CIN)

      We recognize the following sites for their services:
      Christian Classics | Vatican Website | Zenit | World News - Vatican
      Radio

      Resources: Catechism Catholic Church - The New American & The
      Douay-Rheims Bibles

      Copyright 1987-2010 Catholic Information Network (CIN) - Updated:
      11-30-10

