  Home | Products | FlingSock | Free Games | Order Now | Customers Talk |
Contact Us | Site Map | Advertise | Search | Links
*
                                                     Gifts and
                                                      Toys for
 Gifts, Toys &              Youth Group                 kids
Games for Fun              Games & Ideas                         [c]
                                                     Games and
                                                     Activities
                                                      for kids
*
                        Youth Group Games  Youth Group Games   1     2     Back to
                                                  Index

                       These are the games that youth leaders are looking for and
                       some of these games can be weird, gross, obnoxious and
                       repulsive. Why do youth leaders use such games? To help
                       knock down the walls that kids start building, to teach them
                       that everyone is different and different is okay. Laughter
   Home                is one of the best medicines and the memories that have been
                       deposited are priceless.

                       Enter if you dare and use caution with any game.

                       Aliens Attack (gotm 11/04) by
                       Bojana Kuzminac
                       Bike Trip
                       Bobbing for Apples - A Tongue
                       Twister? (gotm 10/02)
                       Build A Chair (gotm 5/02)
                       Catch-N-Clean (gotm 2/03) by
                       S.T.A.T.I.K. Kids Church
                       Circle Twisted (gotm 4/05)          Girl catching
                       Creamed Whistle (gotm 9/09)         Thumb Ball
                       Dare Points
                       Duct Tape Head (gotm 4/07) by Rev.
                       Stacy Brankel
   Products            Egg Head (gotm 7/02)
                       Find A Tree (gotm 3/05) by Madison
                       Marshmallow Launch by Jeremy
                       Mellow Drop by Betty
                       Pamper Your Pallet by Jeremy

                       The youthgroup games below can be found in other categories
                       Apple On A Rope see           Kidnapping Pastor Green see
                       Miscellaneous Games           Misc. Games
                       Best Dressed Clown see        Numbers In the Sand see
                       Miscellaneous Games           Miscellaneous Games
                       Blinded Fetch see             Oatmeal Fight see
                       Miscellaneous Games           Miscellaneous Games
                       Build a Scarecrow see         Raider of the Lost Parents
                       Classroom Ideas               see Misc. Games
                       Frozen T s see Classroom      Relay Card Game see Card &
                       Ideas                         Dice Games
                                     Fun Games Try our great products
   What s Hot!
                                              Aliens Attack
                        Required: Dark rooms                     Game of the Month
                        Players: Medium (2 groups of 10 or more)             11/04

                        You have two teams of 10 or more (the important thing is
                        to have two teams), 2 aliens and 2 ray guns. [game_al]Play
                        this game at night in a church or at someone's house where
                        it will stay dark inside. Set up a base where people will
                        go if caught. Give the ray guns 1 minute to hide and then
                        send the aliens off. After another minute the whole group
                        goes looking for the ray guns. The point of the game is to
                        not get caught by the aliens while looking for the ray
                        guns (the only way to get the aliens out is to be holding
                        onto the ray gun while touching the alien). The ray guns
                        can give away their position if they want to but they
                        should stay hidden (makes it more fun). The aliens are
                        chasing everyone around while they are on the look out for
   FlingSock            the ray guys.
                        Submitted by Bojana Kuzminac
                                               back to top
                                                Bike Trip
                        Required: Safe bike route, bikes & host homes
                        Players: Small to large groups

                        Plan out a bike trip that will allow the route to return
                        close to where the starting point was. Have different
                        stopping points throughout the trip. Possibly have host
                        homes that will provide drinks, maybe a cooked hotdog or
                        meal. Have the last stopping point where they could go
                        swimming or enjoy a campfire with Smores. You could use
                        this idea as a fundraiser by getting pledges for the
                        distance they will travel. Make sure you have drivers with
                        vehicles that can carry bikes that will not make it or
                        need a ride home. Also have a first aid kit, bike repair
                        kit with pump and wear proper biking protective gear.
   Fun Childrens        Submitted by R. Scheel, Fun-Attic Inc.
  Gifts FlingSock                              back to top
  Top 10                          Bobbing for Apples - A Tongue Twister
                        Required: Large clean tub, water,
                        towels, apples                           Game of the Month
                        and  Cow Tongues                                     10/02
                        Players: Small to medium groups

                        Go to your local supermarket or butcher and purchase 1-3
                        cow tongues. Wash the tongues off and cook them in a slow
                        boiling pot on the stove for several hours. Once cooked
                        refrigerate until your ready for them. They can be cooked
                        up a day ahead of time if needed.
                        For your next youth event or party fill one clean large
                        tub with water, add apples and cow tongues. Give prizes to
                        the participants that are willing and successful in
                        pulling out a cow s tongue with their teeth. You could
                        also purchase an extra tongue that can be served to those
                        that are willing to participant in the delicacy. If your
                        concerned about participants not willing to bob for apples
   Fun Childrens        because of the tongues in the tub. Add the tongues at a
  Toys FlingSock        later time, after a few participants have had the pleasure
  Field                 of bobbing for apples. Do this without anyone knowing that
      Manual            you ve added them to see what type of reaction the
                        previous bobbers will give. Ask them if they think that
                        the tongues were in the bottom and now they floated to the
                        top?
                        Submitted by R. Scheel, Fun-Attic Inc.
                                               back to top
                                              Build A Chair
                        Required: 8 - 2ft cut pieces of 2 X 4
                        wood, hammer, safety goggles, 8 nails  Game of the Month 5
                        for each team                                          /02
                        Players: Small to large groups

                        Each teams mission will be to build a chair one person or
                        nail at a time. Have 8 pieces of wood and 8 nails at one
                        end of the playing field for each team. The first person
                        on each team will be given a hammer. Their job will be to
                        race down, put on the safety goggles and nail two pieces
                        of board using only one nail. When they have completely
   Free Games           driven the nail into the board they will remove the safety
                        goggles and race back with the hammer, hand it off to the
                        next player and the next player will do the same. The
                        first four players will have to make the seat of the chair
                        and the next four players will create the legs of the
                        chair. The first team done is the winner.
                        Created by R. Scheel and Mariah (age 8), Fun-Attic Inc.
                                               back to top

                                              Catch-N-Clean
                        Required: big bowls, bags of jumbo
                        marshmallows, bottles of chocolate
                        syrup, plastic hair nets, garbage   Game of the Month 2/03
                        bags, table, paper plates
                        Players: Small to medium groups - 2
                        players per team

                        Cut hole in bottum of garbage bags and place over 1 player
   Fun Childrens        on each team so their clothes stay clean and place the
  Games Game of         head gear on them. They get on their knees behind a table
  the Month             and put the plate in front of them. The other team members
                        line up in front of them about 4-5 feet away depending on
                        age group. Dump the marshmallows in the bowls and then
                        pour the chocolate over top. Stir them up so all of them
                        get good and covered.

                        GO! Give about 1 minute, each team begins to throw the
                        chocolate covered marshmallows to their team mate. When a
                        catch is made (with no hands of course) the team member is
                        to suck off all the chocolate then spit out the clean
                        marshmallows. During the cleaning process [DO NOT STOP
                        THROWING] you may be able to catch-n-clean more than one
                        at a time. At the buzzer add them up the most
                        catch-n-cleans win.
                        Submitted by S.T.A.T.I.K. Kids Church
                                               back to top

                                              Circle Twisted
   Fun Childrens        Required: Music, sound system with       Game of the Month
  Activities Great      microphones, platform                                 4/05
  Game List             Players: Medium to large groups

                        Have youth group leaders get all participants standing and
                        forming two circles. One of the circles should be inside
                        of the other circle. It s helpful if there are a couple of
                        the leaders standing on a stage above the players or on a
                        stable platform/chairs. When the music starts the two
                        circles will rotate in opposite directions. The leaders
                        will stop the music and make an order. Somewhat like the
                        game twister, they will call out body parts to connect.
                        Examples are  right elbow to left ear ,  left knee to nose
                         ,  right hand to right shoulder blade ,  head to left
                        ankle or other safe combinations you can come up with. You
                        can have these written down to be pulled out of a hat or
                        just make them up as you go. The leader calls out one of
                        the orders and the inside circle players are to quickly
                        find an outside circle player and complete the order by
                        connecting. As the players start to find a partner, they
       Youth Group      are given only a few seconds to complete the order, the
  Games and Ideas       leaders on stage will start calling players out that have
   Youth Groups         not completed the order. The leaders will start pointing
                        and saying  Your out ,  Your out ,  Your out trying to
                        eliminate as many as possible. After a few seconds you
                        start up the music again and repeat, trying to get it
                        started quickly so that the kids will be mixed up with as
                        many players as possible. You can play this until you have
                        one couple as the winners or until they get tired of the
                        game. Great game to get kids to interact and meet new
                        faces (elbows, knees, ears, feet). Can be done with a
                        large group of 50-100 kids.
                        Submitted by R Scheel, Northview Campus Life, Grand
                        Rapids, MI
                                               back to top
                                             Creamed Whistle
                        Required: Several whistles, small paper  Game of the Month
                        plates and whip cream                                 9/09
                        Players: Small to medium groups

   Group                Lay out paper plates on a table and
  Fundraiser Ideas      place one clean whistle on each plate.
   Fundraisers          Cover each whistle with one scoop of
                        whip cream. Each player will run to the
                        table, bend over with hands behind their
                        backs and find the whistle with their
                        mouth. They are to position the whistle
                        in their mouth and the first to blow the
                        whistle is the winner. If you're playing
                        this game as a team the first whistle
                        blower earns points for their team, you
                        could even give the second place team
                        second place team points. Clean off
*                  *    whistles with hot soapy water and start
                        again with new plates and fresh whip
                        cream.
                                               back to top
                                   ┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
                                   ┃ Impress someone - buy them a fun┃
                                   ┃              gift!              ┃
   Order Now                       ┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛

                                               Dare Points
                        Required: Pre-made coupons, lots of prizes
                        Players: Medium to large groups

                        Use this idea for your next lock-in or youth camp
                        experience. Pre-make coupons with or without point values
                        on them. If using coupons with point values make them 100,
                        200, and 500 point value coupons with a space for date and
                        leaders signature. If no value on coupon supply all
                        leaders with a marker or pen that is a unique color and
                        all leaders will have to same color. You can then write in
                        the agreed amount of any specific dare. Make sure that a
                        space is provided for their signature and date. Inform
                        youth that they'll be using these coupons to earn prizes
                        in an auction that will take place later in the trip/
                        event. If you are traveling to a camp, the dares can start
   About Fun-Attic      once you start loading up. What can the youth do to earn
                        these points?

                          • Carry the leaders bags to the transportation provided
                          • Carry the bags to the lodge
                          • Fluff the leaders pillow
                          • Waiting on the leaders hand and foot by getting their
                            lunch, drinks and clearing the tables

                        And then there are all those crazy things that they are
                        more than willing to do to earn one piece of paper with
                        points on it. They ll beg you to give them something to do
                        to earn points. They'll sing, dance, and do stunts
                        anything to earn those points.

                        For the more reserved youth I had them in the Bible
                        counting sheep in John: 10 (answer 17), memorizing and
                        reciting verses including Roman 3: 23 forward and
   Send-a-Card          backwards, finding the definition of Nabal s name (answer
                        Fool), name the Fruits of the Spirit, What is a Lament?
                        (answer Sad Song) and so on.

                        Towards the end of the event the youth will total up their
                        points and an auction will be held. You can auction off
                        little items like candy bars, bags of candy, donated items
                        from small to large and even perks. Perks are usually
                        special nights with the various youth leaders like
                        dinners, bowling, movies or sleepovers. The perks can
                        sometimes be for more than one person, so they can invite
                        a guest or up to 3. The youth will pool their points to
                        purchase these perks. Once all items have been auctioned
                        off the coupons are totally worthless. You can let them
                        know how many items will be auctioned off or we leave it a
                        surprise so they have no idea when the bidding will be
                        done.
                        Submitted by Robin Scheel, Fun-Attic Inc.
   Customers Talk                              back to top

                                              Duct Tape Head
                        Required: Stocking Cap, Duct Tape,       Game of the Month
                        Plastic Spoons                                        4/07
                        Players: 1 at a time

                        This is an easy game that can be played with teams or
                        individually. Start with a stocking cap that will cover
                        the whole head of the contestant. Pull it down as far as
                        possible and then take duct tape wrong side out from the
                        bottom of the head all the way over the top and mummify
                        the head( let them breathe of course!) once the head is
                        covered then draw a square on the carpet with duct tape
                        and dump 100 plastic spoons on the ground, into the
                        square. The contestant must use his taped head to pickup
                        as many spoons as possible, getting them out of the
                        square. The one with the most spoons is the winner.
   Contact Us           Submitted by Rev. Stacy Brankel, Ruidoso, NM
                                               back to top
                                                 Egg Head
                        Required: Nylons, eggs, old clothes,
                        roped off area, foam swimming noodle,    Game of the Month
                        blindfold and maybe a lake to wash up                 7/02
                        in
                        Players: Small to large groups

                        All players will be given one raw egg and one nylon (clean
                        pantyhose or knee hi). If you use pantyhose, cut into two
                        pieces so that you ll have one leg for each player.
                        (Instruct players as to what they have to do before they
                        are given the eggs because once they drop their egg they
                        are out of the game.) Players are to place one raw egg in
                        the nylon and tie around their heads so that the eggs sit
                        on top of their. The nylon will be the only thing that
                        should hold the egg on their head, not their hands. All
   Site Map             players will be instructed that they must stay in the
                        roped off area. One player will be blindfolded and given a
                        foam swimming noodle. When all are ready the player with
                        the noodle will try to smash the eggs on the other players
                        heads. The eggheads are to run around in roped off
                        sections while making a chicken sound. If a player looses
                        his egg or their egg is smashed that player is out of the
                        game. The last player with a whole egg is the winner.
                        Remember to have them use discretion as they will be
                        hitting players on the head and have a leader monitoring
                        at all times.
                        Created by R. Scheel, Fun-Attic Inc.
                                               back to top

                                               Find A Tree
                        Required: Lots of trees, blindfolds      Game of the Month
                        Players: Small to medium groups                       3/05

   Advertise            Everyone has a partner. One is blindfolded and the partner
                        who can see leads the blind partner to a tree of their
                        choice. They describe it to the sightless from questions
                        that are asked by the blindfolded person. They can move
                        the hands of the blindfolded person to show them unique
                        features and the blind can touch the tree as much as they
                        want until they think they know their tree. Everyone
                        returns back to the center. Have the blindfolded players
                        spin around a few times to disorient them. The blindfolds
                        are then taken off. The newly sighted players try to find
                        their tree while their partners stay quietly in the
                        center. When the first correct tree is found that team is
                        the winner.
                        Submitted by Madison from Lyons, Colorado
                                               back to top
                                            Marshmallow Launch
                        Required: Miniature marshmallows
                        Players: Small to medium groups
   Search
                        Each participant is given a small marshmallow. The
                        competition is a distance thing... you have a person put a
                        small marshmallow in one nostril and plug the other one,
                        then have them blow it as far as they can. I think you get
                        the picture!
                        Submitted by Jeremy from the music group  Down Here .
                        Thanks, Jeremy
                        Graduated from Briercrest with a Bachelor of Arts in
                        Sports Ministry
                                               back to top
                                               Mellow Drop
                        Required: Clean hands, bowls, sunglasses, old clothes,
                        miniature marshmallows and chocolate syrup
                        Players: Small to large groups

                        Divide group up into to teams. Have an adult or leader for
                        each team lay on the ground with protective eye covering
   Links                like sunglasses. The teams line up about 15 feet away from
                        the leader that's on the ground. Have a bowl of miniature
                        marshmallows and a bowl of chocolate syrup for each team.
                        On go, each player one at a time will pick up one
                        marshmallow, dip it in syrup and run to their  leader that
                        is on the ground with their mouth open. They will drop the
                        chocolate covered marshmallow in the leaders open mouth
                        while standing over them and go to the end of the line. If
                        the player misses the target he/she must leave it. The
                        winning team is the one that has the least number of
                        marshmallows on the face of the leader or floor. Great
                        game and the kids LOVE IT!!! (Caution! This game can cause
                        a choking hazard. Play with caution and at your own risk)
                        Submitted by Betty at FBC New Bern
                                               back to top
                                            Pamper Your Pallet
                        Required: Disposable diapers, several types of candy and
                        chocolate bars and small sample spoons
                        Players: Small to medium groups
   Check out our
  monthly special       Buy a box of cheap disposable diapers and 8-12 different
                        types of candy bars. In separate diapers melt one candy
  Fun-Attic Inc.        bar in microwave until you cannot tell what type it is.
                        Number the outside of that diaper, list it on a master
  12622 Kindy Dr.       list and do the same for all the other candy bars. Have
  Gowen, MI 49326       participants with small food sample spoons taste each
                        diaper and make a list of what type of candy bar they
   616-559-3642         think is in the diaper. Have players get a new spoon for
                        each diaper and no double dipping. The person with the
                        most correct answers is the winner.
                        Submitted by Jeremy from the music group  Down Here 
                                               back to top
                        Youth Group  Youth Group Games   1     2     Back to Index

                                ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                          Fun Gripper B-Ball Target  Fun Gripper Flyer Golf  Fun
                          Gripper Football Toss  Fun Gripper Roll-To-Score  Fun
                                           Gripper Target Toss
                        Muckers Game  Fun Gripper Bowling Set  Zingers  Soft Shoes
                                                   Game
                        Fun Gripper Soccer Ball  Fun Gripper Football  FlingSock 
                                  Fun Gripper Flyer  Splash Water Bombs

                        Remember-The object is for everyone to have fun. The
                        moderator is the all-powerful dictator. You may at any
                        time change the rules or boundaries or handicap players to
                        help balance out the wide spectrum of abilities. We want
                        the tentative athlete and the superjock to play together
                        at the best of their abilities.
     View Cart
                                                Have Fun!
     Important
    safety note!         Now here are some colorful ideas to liven up play time.
        [c]
                        If you have a fun game that is entertaining and healthy
                        for kids of ANY age, you can send it to us for
                        consideration and addition to our Games and Activities
                        Guide.

                        Join our mailing list to receive our periodic newsletter
                        and be kept up to date on new games, ideas and activities.

                                              Back to Index

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━&COPY;copyright 2012   Fun-Attic Inc.
  www.funattic.com


