      St. Peter        [stptline]  Welcome to St. Peter Publications
  Publications logo                ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                   Please note our email address:
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━              office@stpeter.org
        LINKS
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━                   Updated information as of December, 2015
          
  red/blue bullet                  S[peteicon]t. Peter Publications is pleased
   Annual Atlantic                 to offer a range of Christian reading and
     Theological                   other material that is orthodox in content,
     Conference                    and which is Canadian and Anglican in
                                   perspective.
red/blue bullet "The
  Anglican Planet"                 Our wide-ranging variety of literature
                                   includes the annual reports and brochures of
  red/blue bullet                  the Atlantic Theological Conferences, as well
Discovering the Book               as "A Canadian Church Calendar" (based on the
 of Common Prayer (a               Book of Common Prayer - 1962), and many other
   3-book series)                  booklets & pamphlets, as presented in our
                                   detailed Catalogue. From 1984 until the end
 red/blue bullet St.               of 2006, we published "The Anglican Free
   George's Sunday                 Press", a quarterly journal, which described
  School Curriculum                itself as 'A Faithful Watchman, Messenger and
                                   Steward of the Lord'. The AFP endeavoured to
 red/blue bullet The               look at the contemporary Church from the
 Recollected Pastor:               orthodox point of view of classical Anglican
  Dr. Robert Crouse                Christianity, with the intention of being a
       Online                      voice for the renewal of traditional faith in
                                   the Canadian Church. In 2005, we partnered
 red/blue bullet The               with the "Anglican Planet Project" to begin
 Prayer Book Society               the publication of a new monthly periodical,
      of Canada                    'The Anglican Planet'.
                                           Please note: Some copies of back
  red/blue bullet                  issues of the Anglican Free Press are
Anglican Free Press -              available on request, and some articles and
Editorial from a past              editorials from back issues are available
        issue                      here through the AFP link on this website.
                                           This link contains the Editorial that
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━              was printed in the final AFP, as well as the
                                   message from the Chairman of the Board of St.
                                   Peter Publications.
  A CANADIAN CHURCH
      CALENDAR                     Our publications address the important
      FOR 2016                     concerns and controversies facing the church
                                   today, including theological innovations,
     [calendar]                    liturgical reform, Christian morality, the
                                   challenge of secularity, re-evangelizing of
                                   the Church, and other issues of faith. St.
                                   Peter Publications gives voice to a living
                                   Catholic and evangelical tradition within our
                                   contemporary Anglican Church, working for
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━              renewal as we move forward in this new
      CONTENTS                     century and new Millennium.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                   Our website also includes publications by Fr.
      Calendar                     John Pearce, many links to religious sites
          ●                        relating to classical Christianity, the
      Catalogue                    Anglican Way, as well as other perspectives.
          ●                        Thus we hope to uphold and articulate the
     Conference                    'faith once delivered to the saints',
          ●                        proclaiming the undiluted good news of God's
     Fr. Pearce                    love in Jesus Christ our Lord.
          ●
      Our Links                    St. Peter Publications is also pleased to be
          ●                        an agent for the sale of the three-book
                                   series, "Discovering the Book of Common
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━              Prayer", written by Sue Careless, and
                                   published originally as a project of the
                                   Prayer Book Society of Canada.
 TO GOD BE THE GLORY
                                   ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                                         
          +                                 St. Peter Publications Inc.

                                                   P.O. Box 713,
                                       Charlottetown P.E.I., Canada, C1A 7L3
                                           Phone & Fax: 1(902) 368-8442

                                           E-mail us: office@stpeter.org


                                   ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                   
                                   The Meaning of Evil

                                   Book Cover, 2014 Conference Book The 2014
                                   Atlantic Theological Conference was held in
                                   Halifax at the University of King's College.
                                   (This was the 34th annual conference). "The
                                   Meaning of Evil" was the challenging theme
                                   being addressed in the papers that were
                                   presented. Speakers included Rev'd Dr. Brian
                                   Spence, Dr. Robert Kennedy, Dr. Matthew
                                   Robinson, Dr. Neil Robertson, and Dr. Daniel
                                   Brandes. Dr. Spence spoke on "Disobedience
                                   and Idolatry: The meaning of evil in the
                                   Bible". Dr. Kennedy spoke on "Augustine and
                                   the very possibility of evil". Dr. Robinson
                                   spoke about "Aquinas' account of the will's
                                   freedom in the De malo", Dr. Robertson's
                                   topic was "The Evil 'I': The transformation
                                   of evil in the Reformation and
                                   Enlightenment", and Dr. Brandes' paper was
                                   called "Unpunishable and/so Unforgivable:
                                   Hannah Arendt on Radical Evil". Other papers
                                   were presented as well, and also responses to
                                   the papers, all of which gave interesting and
                                   thought-provoking insights into this
                                   challenging subject.

                                   Only $15, plus postage and handling. Order
                                   yours today!






                                   The Biblical Job: Comfort, Righteousness,
                                   Holiness

                                   Book Cover, 2013 Conference Book The 2013
                                   Atlantic Theological Conference was held in
                                   Fredericton, New Brunswick. (This was the
                                   33rd annual conference). The topic was "The
                                   Biblical Job: Comfort, Righteousness,
                                   Holiness". Speakers at the conference
                                   included Dr. Thomas Curran, Dr. Neil
                                   Robertson, Father Christopher Snook, and The
                                   Rev'd Lisa Wang. The Book of Job raises many
                                   profound theological questions, which were
                                   addressed in the papers presented at this
                                   conference. We see the rain fall on the just
                                   as well as on the unjust, and we are troubled
                                   and wonder how this can happen under God's
                                   Providence. In his Response to Father
                                   Christopher Snook's paper, The Rev'd Dr.
                                   Brian Spence examines some of the important
                                   questions raised by a close reading of the
                                   Book of Job. He writes: "How can the Book of
                                   Job assist us in speaking to our
                                   contemporaries about suffering and belief in
                                   God? How might it inspire our pastoral
                                   practice? And finally, what kind of Christian
                                   faith and practice is meant to emerge from a
                                   decidedly Christian way of reading this book,
                                   as part of the Hebrew and Christian canons of
                                   the Bible?"

                                   Only $15, plus postage and handling. Order
                                   yours today!






                                   "The New Atheism"

                                   Book Cover, 2012 Conference Book The 2012
                                   Atlantic Theological Conference was held in
                                   Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island. (This
                                   was the 32nd annual conference). The topic
                                   was "The New Atheism". We hope that the
                                   papers presented at the conference and found
                                   in this volume will prove to be helpful in
                                   our understanding of Scripture, as well as
                                   providing a useful response to the arguments
                                   and assertions of the New Atheists. As Dr.
                                   Gary Thorne says in his paper: "The New
                                   Atheists challenge us to see the importance
                                   of our modern view of Scripture. Generally
                                   speaking, we have lost the hermeneutic that
                                   allows the Scripture to speak to us of the
                                   supernatural, and to transform our lives. We
                                   read the Bible in a one-dimensional,
                                   naturalistic and scientific way that either
                                   makes us Fundamentalists or causes us to
                                   reject the Bible as outdated and inadequate."

                                   Only $15, plus postage and handling. Order
                                   yours today!






                                   "Recognizing the Sacred in the Modern
                                   Secular": How the sacred is to be discovered
                                   in today's world

                                   Book Cover, 2011 Conference Book The 2011
                                   Atlantic Theological Conference was held in
                                   Halifax, Nova Scotia. The topic was
                                   "Recognizing the Sacred in the Modern
                                   Secular". This is a topic which should be of
                                   interest to Christians of the present day.
                                   The papers presented at the Conference and
                                   printed in this book include the following
                                   topics: "The Emergence of Modern Ascetism and
                                   Contemporary Christian Community", "The
                                   Sacred in Narrative and Fiction", "Challenges
                                   to Belief in the 21st Century", "Visio: The
                                   Method of Robert Crouse's Philosophical
                                   Theology", "Paradise Abides - Robert Crouse
                                   and the Preaching of the Sacred in the Modern
                                   Secular". This volume is dedicated to the
                                   memory of the late Rev'd Dr. Robert Crouse.

                                   Only $15, plus postage and handling. Order
                                   yours today!






                                   "Knit together in one communion": Anglican
                                   Identity and the Challenge of Diversity

                                   Book Cover, 2010 Conference Book The 2010
                                   Atlantic Theological Conference was held in
                                   Moncton, New Brunswick. The topic was
                                   "Anglican Identity and the Challenge of
                                   Diversity". We hope that the papers presented
                                   at this conference will provide Anglicans
                                   with helpful background for grappling with
                                   some of the questions facing us within
                                   Anglicanism in our current day. The papers
                                   presented include the following topics:
                                   "Anglican Identity; A Retrospective Glance",
                                   "The Anglican Instruments of Communion: a
                                   Theological Approach", "Matters Essential and
                                   Indifferent in Sixteenth Century English
                                   Theology", "Let us thus think of the Trinity:
                                   Matters Essential and Matters Indifferent in
                                   Seventeenth Century English Theology", "Word
                                   and Books: A Discussion of the Importance of
                                   Education to Unity in Doctrine" and "The
                                   Prayer Book as Matrix of Unity".

                                   Only $15, plus postage and handling. Order
                                   yours today!






                                   Changing our Mind on Secularization: The
                                   Contemporary debate about sacred and secular
                                   in Judaism, Christianity, and Islam

                                   Book Cover, 2009 Conference Book The 2009
                                   Atlantic Theological Conference was held in
                                   Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island. The
                                   topic was "Changing our Mind on
                                   Secularization". This conference explored the
                                   topic of the contemporary debate about sacred
                                   and secular in Judaism, Christianity, and
                                   Islam. The book includes all the papers that
                                   were presented at the conference, including
                                   papers by Dr. Wayne Hankey, The Rev'd Dr.
                                   Gary Thorne, Dr. Peter O'Brien, The Rev'd Dr.
                                   Thomas Curran, Mr. Peter Bryson, Dr.
                                   Alexander Treiger, Dr. Bruce Gordon, and Dr.
                                   Eli Diamond. 208 pages.

                                   Only $15, plus postage and handling. Order
                                   yours today!






                                   Christian Psychology: The Formation of Souls

                                   Book Cover, 2008 Conference Book The topic of
                                   the 2008 Atlantic Theological Conference held
                                   in Halifax, Nova Scotia, was "Christian
                                   Psychology: The Formation of Souls". The
                                   thought-provoking papers given at that
                                   conference and included in this volume are
                                   offered in thanksgiving for the seminal and
                                   ongoing contribution to these conferences of
                                   The Rev'd Dr. Robert Crouse. His papers, and
                                   also his presence, have provided an abiding
                                   inspiration and encouragement to those in
                                   attendance over the years. Here we let him
                                   speak for himself: "Paradise is only possible
                                   if the soul is 'transhumanized'... only if if
                                   the intellect is enabled by faith to fix its
                                   vision upon the eternal Good; only if the
                                   will is strengthened by hope to pursue that
                                   Good; only if the powers of the soul are
                                   united in that eternal Charity, that divine
                                   'amor' which moves the sun and the other
                                   stars." (page 120 of this volume).

                                   Only $25, including postage and handling.
                                   Order yours today!




                                   Justification and Sanctification

                                   Book Cover, 2007 Conference Book The papers
                                   delivered at the 27th Annual Atlantic
                                   Theological Conference are contained in this
                                   book. The conference was held in Fredericton,
                                   New Brunswick, in May of 2007. The book
                                   includes papers presented by The Rev' Dr.
                                   Robert Crouse, Dr. Anthony Esolen, The Rev'd
                                   Dr. Roger Beckwith, Dr. Paul Epstein, and The
                                   Rev'd Dr. Peter Toon. At the conference,
                                   these five speakers addressed the subject of
                                   Justification and Sanctification, exploring
                                   the topic from a number of perspectives. The
                                   papers presented include "Justification and
                                   Sanctification in the Thought of St. Paul and
                                   St. Augustine", "Sanctification in Dante's
                                   Purgatorio", "A Reformation Account of
                                   Justification and Sanctification" and
                                   "Justification by Faith and Dynamic
                                   Equivalency: Pauline doctrine and the
                                   contemporary church". Within the opening
                                   pages of his paper, Dr. Robert Crouse poses
                                   questions with which the ensuing papers all
                                   in one way or another grapple:
                                            "Are we justified simply by God's
                                   merciful decree, in view of the infinite
                                   merit of Christ's sacrifice, or does our
                                   justification also imply some working of
                                   righteousness in our souls, whereby we freely
                                   co-operate in God's work for our salvation?
                                   In other words, is God's gift of
                                   justification simply declarative, or is it
                                   also creative? Is God's righteousness simply
                                   imparted to us for Christ's sake, or is his
                                   righteousness in some way imparted to us as
                                   we live in Christ? Are we merely accounted
                                   just, or are we actually made just? And are
                                   those really alternatives?" (page 1)
                                   Only $20, plus postage and handling. Order
                                   yours today!


                                   ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                   
                                   Reform and Renewal in Contemporary
                                   Christianity (The 2006 Conference Book)

                                   Christian Friendship (The 2005 Conference
                                   Book)

                                   Multiculturalism and Religious Freedom (The
                                   2004 Conference Book)

                                   Iconography: The Use of Art in Christian
                                   Worship (The 2003 Conference Book)

                                   Providence: The Will of God in Human Affairs
                                   (The 2002 Conference Book)

                                    The Journey Home  (The 2001 Conference Book)

                                   Click this link for information about all
                                   sessions of the Atlantic Theological
                                   Conference from 1981 to the present

                                   ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                   ~ Calendar ~ Catalogue ~ Conferences ~ Pearce
                                              Publications ~ Links ~
                                     ~ Order Forms ~  "The Anglican Planet" ~
                                   ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                                       ~ ~ ~                    

