     Home | Strict & Particular Baptists | Articles of Faith | Carter Lane
                       Declaration | Midlands Confession
  Creed of the United Brethren | Regulative Principle | Doctrines of Grace |
                                Apostles Creed
 Tertullian on the Circus and Theatre | John Gill at Carter Lane | Dr Gill on
                              Bible Translations
  Gadsby's Catechism | Particular Baptist Hymnology | Recommendations | Photo
                                     File



                        STRICT and PARTICULAR BAPTISTS


   "Who are those Christians who are known as Strict & Particular Baptists?"

   This question arises because a photograph of an historic Strict &
   Particular Baptist Meeting House, in St. Ives, appeared in a secular Web
   Site; also it is one that I am sometimes asked.

   The reason for writing this item is twofold. First, there are many
   believers who know little, if anything, about those brethren, known as
   Strict and Particular Baptists. This is not surprising, there are many
   groups of Christians of which I know very little, or nothing at all.
   Secondly, there are misconceptions abroad concerning these brethren. This
   is something that we have all learned to live with, but I would,
   nevertheless, like to take an opportunity to explain the position of S&
   PBs.

   The Strict & Particular Baptists are, first and foremost, Christians who
   have a long and orthodox history. They are Believers on, and in, the Lord
   Jesus Christ. They are His Followers, or Disciples. In saying this these
   Believers do not imply that others, not so designated, are not
   Christians; in fact they recognise all true believers in the Lord Jesus
   as brethren, beloved in Christ.

   The name Strict & Particular Baptists is one that was given, by others,
   in three distinct parts. Although this is a title given, by others, it
   has been accepted as being correctly descriptive. We should note, the
   followers of Christ did not choose a name they were called Christians by
   others.

   They are known as Baptists because they believe that the New Testament
   teaches that believers, after conversion, are immersed in water as part
   of their profession of faith. This is in identification with the Lord
   Jesus Christ, the Saviour, in His burial and in His resurrection.

   They are known as Particular Baptists because they believe, and preach,
   that teaching which is within the principles known as the Doctrines of
   Grace, set out in five points. The name, Particular, coming from the
   heading of the central, third, paragraph, which is about Redemption.

   They are known as Strict & Particular Baptists because they believe that
   the Lord's Supper is a Divine Ordinance which is celebrated within a
   Congregation comprised of saved, immersed, believers seeking to live, and
   serve God, in a manner that is set out in the New Testament. The term
   'Strict' may not always be applied but is normally implied. That is,
   these brethren are often known as Particular Baptists. See Articles of
   Faith, Para. 15,

   Strict & Particular Baptists make a point of avoiding sacral and
   ritualistic excess, on one hand, and they have managed to stand apart
   from sentimental and emotional immoderation, on the other hand, in the
   celebration of the Lord's Supper. However, they, like many other
   nonconformists, may tend to loose sight of the real meaning and value of
   the Lord's Supper, to both The Lord Jesus Christ and to His Redeemed
   People.

   Strict & Particular Baptists believe and practice the principle that each
   gathering is directly responsible to the Lord Jesus Christ, the only Head
   of the Assembly, which is His Body. Consequently there is no centralised
   denominational Strict & Particular Baptist Headquarters, nor is there any
   governing committee, nor president, nor moderator, nor any other human
   head or leader.

   Strict & Particular Baptists do have fellowship with other congregations
   of believers on the basis of the truth, which they hold dear. The
   epicentre of this fellowship is the Person and the Glory of the Lord
   Jesus Christ, the only head of His Gathering, which is His Body and
   Bride.

   They meet in buildings which are normally known as a Chapel or a Meeting
   House. (The latter term, which was in common use from the 17th. to
   the19th. centuries, has sadly gone out of favour. It would be interesting
   to know how, when and why this change took place.) This is because the
   term 'church' is strictly a gathering, congregation or assembly, of
   baptised believers and is neither applied to a religious denomination nor
   to a building. Some brethren prefer to use the term congregation rather
   than the ambiguous term 'church'. A number of congregations also maintain
   a library, at the Chapel, containing volumes by conservative evangelical
   writers.

   Strict & Particular Baptists are conservative evangelical Christians who
   have a lot in common with many other believers. However, there are
   differences. For example, they do believe that "the Believer's Rule of
   conduct is the Gospel, and not the Law." (See Articles of Faith Para.16)
   This is exemplified in the following extract from a hymn, from the book
   used by S & P Baptists.

              The Law of Liberty. Jas 1:25; Jn 13:17.

              The gospel's the law of the Lamb;
              My soul of its glories shall sing;
              With pleasure my tongue shall proclaim
              The law of my Saviour and King;
              A sweet law liberty this;
              A yoke that is easy and mild;
              Of love it the precious law is,
              Unknown unto all but a child.

              Its beauties all centre in Christ,
              For Christ is the substance of it;
              It makes broken hearts to rejoice,
              And insolvent debtors will fit.
              'Tis wisdom, 'tis strength, and 'tis love,
              'Tis all that a sinner can need;
              And all that are born from above,
              By Jesus from Moses are freed.

                                                  William Gadsby

   Another hymn, from Redemption Songs and used by other believers, gets the
   same message over.

              Justified by His Grace. Rom 3:24.

              Free from the law, O happy condition,
              Jesus hath bled and there is re-mission,
              Cursed by the Law, and bruised by the fall,
              Grace hath redeemed us, once for all.

                                                    Philip Bliss

   One aspect of this truth is particularised in the lines;- "The Sabbath
   was --- A lively type of Christ, --- The labouring poor may venture here,
   --- And lean on Jesus breast." William Gadsby

   What is being claimed is that Believers in the Lord Jesus Christ are
   freed from "The law of ten commands, on holy Sinai given." (Isaac Watts)
   Believers are brought into Gospel Liberty, which is a New Rule that is
   based on the New Covenant and set in New Creation.

   This teaching goes back to early Christianity.
   "For if we are living until now according to Judaism we confess that we
   have not received grace. --- (we are) no longer living for the Sabbath,
   but for the Lord's day. --- --- It is monstrous to talk of Jesus Christ
   and to practice Judaism." Ignatius to the Magnesians, para. 8-10
   "If anyone interpret Judaism to you do not listen to him." Ignatius to
   the Philadelphians, para.6,v1

   This teaching was held by Christians, called Baptists or Brethren and
   various other names, through the centuries of oppression known as the
   Dark Ages. It is also the teaching of Scripture.
   "By the deeds of the law no flesh shall be justified." Rom 3:20. Also see
   v28
   "Knowing that a person is not justified by the works of the Law, but only
   by faith in Christ Jesus, that we might be justified by the faith of
   Christ, and not by works of the Law; for by works of the Law no flesh
   shill be justified." Gal 2:16, also 4:10-11.
   "Having abolished in His flesh the enmity, even the Law of commandments
   contained in ordinances; for to make in Himself of twin one new man, so
   making peace; and that He might reconcile both unto God in one body by
   the cross, having slain the enmity thereby. He came and preached peace to
   you which were afar off, and to them that were nigh." Eph 2:15-17 & Col
   2:16-17.

   S&PBs firmly believe that the Gospel, and not the Law, is the believers
   rule and this differentiates S&P Baptists from those Brethren who seek to
   re-deploy the Laws of Moses as a rule of conduct for Christians. "Those
   are mistaken brethren who, if they only realised it, send sinners to
   Sinai and believers to Moses instead of sending sinners to Calvary and
   believers to Christ."

   Strict & Particular Baptists, to the best of my knowledge, who are called
   to the Ministry of the Word do not use non-Scriptural titles, such as
   'Reverend', nor wear any items of religious clothing, such as a 'clerical
   collar'. Such ministers are not ordained by any denominational
   organisation, for there is none, and have no authority other than their
   calling by God and that of their own gathering.

   Strict & Particular Baptists are particularly concerned to ensure that
   the Lord Jesus Christ is alone exalted in all ministry and worship. These
   brethren are aware that no man can project himself as a great preacher
   and, at the same time, present Christ as a Mighty Saviour, they are
   acutely aware that no worship can be man-pleasing and, at the same time,
   be a sweet smelling savour to God.

   Strict & Particular Baptists believe in the resurrection of the dead and
   in the imminent, glorious and eternal, return of our Lord Jesus Christ.
   However, they do not, generally, get involved in the various disputes
   between the advocates of the several, competing, millennial theories.

   Strict & Particular Baptists do not consider themselves superior to other
   Christians. They simply believe that they are unworthy sinners who have
   been shown unmerited, divine, grace and mercy.

   Strict & Particular Baptists do have a social conscience. They,
   collectively, support trust funds for the help of those who are in need,
   particularly the elderly and poor of the household of faith. Also there
   are funds to help with property, publishing, and a library. This is done
   without any official denominational oversight, thus preserving the
   autonomy of the local gatherings.

   Strict & Particular Baptists are, sometimes, thought to be part of the
   'Reformed Movement.' There is a measure of truth in this assumption
   because there are very strong links in doctrine, worship and practice.
   (For instance, the European Baptists welcomed both Luther and Calvin when
   these two reformers first appeared on the scene. That is until they were
   given good cause to think otherwise.) However, S&PBs could, if they
   wished, trace their lineage, historically, doctrinally and spiritually,
   beyond the Reformation through the persecuted brethren of the Middle and
   Dark Ages and hence to New Testament Christianity. If the truth were to
   be told, this history has continued from the first century through to the
   second millennium. This is because of the promise by the Lord Jesus
   Christ that the gates of hell would not prevail against His Church, that
   is His Gathering, Assembly, Congregation, of blood bought, ransomed,
   redeemed Saints. It is quite wrong to equate S&PBs with Post Reformation
   Denominations. Those brethren who are known as Strict and Particular
   Baptists are not a 'new movement', nor are they some passing 'religious
   phenomenon'. Also, and this needs to be stated, S&PBs are not
   Protestants, nor are they a 'Re-formed Church', and they have never been
   part of the State-Church system. See G.H.Orchard's History of Baptists.

   Statements, or Articles, of Faith. It is essential that we state what we
   mean. For instance, I have before me a statement of an 'Evangelical
   Church', actually it is an Open Brethren Assembly in disguise, and it is
   claimed; "The Faith taught is founded entirely upon the Bible, which we
   believe is completely inspired of God." Now I do not doubt these brethren
   are totally sincere but, and this is a fact of history, all make this
   claim. We must state what we believe, or make no claim at all and allow
   our testimony, our lives and witness, to tell out what our beliefs are.

   To help you examine these issues in greater detail a set of ARTICLES OF
   FAITH (Gospel Standard) are appended. These are from the old Baptist
   Confession of Faith, which was revised over a period of several years by
   a number of able and acceptable brethren, including John Gill, William
   Gadsby and Joseph C. Philpot. Subsequently a committee of several
   ministers and messengers approved and adopted these articles, which are
   also held by present day Strict & Particular Baptist Congregations.

   These Articles of Faith, drawn up about four centuries ago to enable the
   Gospel Trumpet to give out a clear sound at a time of Doctrinal
   Confusion, have been unchanged for about a century. This is because there
   has been no recent Doctrinal Issues, among S&PBs, requiring a declaration
   of truth. These Articles of Faith are not so much setting up the teaching
   that they believe, but, as believing the whole of the Word of God, these
   brethren were reacting to those distortions of truth that surrounded
   them. That is, there would be no need for us to have a Statement of
   Doctrine if there weren't heresies around us, with which we could be
   associated.

    

                               (C) John Cargill
                 email: John Cargill <johncargill@lineone.net>


    Top | Home | Strict & Particular Baptists | Articles of Faith | Carter
                    Lane Declaration | Midlands Confession
   Creed of the United Brethren | Regulative Principle | Doctrines of Grace
                               | Apostles Creed
   Tertullian on the Circus and Theatre | John Gill at Carter Lane | Dr Gill
                             on Bible Translations
    Gadsby's Catechism | Particular Baptist Hymnology | Recommendations |
                                  Photo File



   ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                      Hosted by Aptweb Internet Services
