  • Welcome!
  • Worship
  • Church Life
  • Children & Youth
  • Caring
  • Staff
  • Directions
  • Church Calendar

First Presbyterian Church (USA)

Barre, VT

Welcome!

Who We Are

Our church seeks to be a doorway through which God works to make disciples of
Jesus Christ. In this church, we experience Christian community as we walk our
spiritual journey with others. As disciples, we are strengthened by God’s
Spirit to live out God’s love in word and deed.

First Presbyterian Church is part of the Presbyterian Church (USA) and we are a
congregation in the Presbytery of Northern New England (PNNE).

We Welcome All People

We hope that you will feel both inspired and welcome as you come into our
space!

Come with your questions and you concerns.

Come with your certainty and your doubt.

Come with your joy and your sorrow.

Come and find God here.

All genders, ages, races, theological perspectives and sexual orientations are
welcome at our church.

Worship @ First Presbyterian Church

For Guests

We understand that visiting a new place for the first time can be a little
intimidating. So, to make you feel more comfortable, here are some answers to a
few common questions:

“How do I get there and where do I park?”

Here are some directions to our location. There is a parking lot next to the
church.

“Can my kids come?”

Yes! Children of all ages are most welcome to services as well as our Sunday
School.

“What do I wear?”

Whether you prefer dressy or casual attire, you’ll feel at home here. You are
welcome as you are. FOR REAL!

WATCH OUR CHURCH WORSHIP SERVICES ON LINE, THANKS TO CVTV IN BARRE, VT. Search
for the “1st Presbyterian Church of Barre” services.

Here’s a listing of community meal sites/times, too!

handout card

(For those interested, the per capita apportionment for 2015 is $45)

Like this:

Like Loading...

  • Search Our Website

    Search for: [                    ] [Search]
  • Location, Contact & Worship Hours

    First Presbyterian Church
    19 Seminary St., Barre, VT
    Directions

    fpcbarre @ gmail.com
    Sundays, 10:00am

  • Like Us for Current Events!

        Like Us for Current Events!

Blog at WordPress.com. — The Connections Theme.

Follow

Follow “First Presbyterian Church (USA)”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
%d bloggers like this:

[b]
