New Beginnings - Emmaus Chrysalis Community of South Central Kentucky

  • Home
  • Contact
  • Calendar
  • Resources & Forms
  • Events
  • Directors

                          Welcome to "New Beginnings"
         in the Emmaus/Chrysalis Community of South Central Kentucky.
                               Fly with Christ!

[womens-emm] [mens-emmau] [july14-3] [july14-1] [july14-4] [july14-2]
[chrysalisevent]
The next Chrysalis flight is TBA!
[emmausevent]
Dates for the Spring Walks!!

Women's Walk #84 is April 21-24, 2016

Men's Walk #85 is April 28-May 1, 2016
[childcare]
Come join us at the Community Gatherings every 2nd Saturday of each month at
7pm, Christ United Methodist Church.

Child care is currently not offered based on need, if interested please suggest
at monthly gatherings!
Emmaus Chrysalis Newsletter
Winter 2015 (C)

Date of next Gathering are Saturday January 9, February 13, & March 12, 7:00pm
at Christ United Methodist Church, on Cave Mill Road, Bowling Green Ky.



November 12, 2015

Greetings from the Emmaus Board:

The leaves are dying and falling to the ground, The grass has turned to a rusty
brown.

Soon Thanksgiving and Christmas will make their entrance In the midst of winter
with all its beauty shown.

All too soon, we realize, another year has come and gone,

BWS

This year seems to have flown by and we are rapidly approaching the holidays.
This wiil be my 'ast newsletter as the Community Lay Director as we do not meet
in December. It has been a very challenging and rewarding year for our Board.
We have had to make some difficult decisions tor the best interest of our
Emmaus Community. WE have updated our bylaws and manuals. We have acquired some
much needed items for our Community. With the help of some generous Emmaus
members, we were able to buy new mattresses. Also, we were able to secure a
permanent parking space for our storage trailer at a modest fee. The rent has
been paid for one year in advance. The Emmaus Community would like to thank Tim
Booth for storing the trailer on his farm all these years. We have been asked
by the South Central From_aws conference to-sponsor •workshop July 2016. I'm
sure you will hear more about this in the coming months. Please be in prayer
for our new Community Lay Director, Mark Williams, and our Community Spiritual
Director, Rev. David Grout and board members as they direct us in the New Year.

The Board would like to congratulate and welcome our newly elected Board
members for 2016. They are: Denise Cole, Cheryl Hernandez, Christina Hubbard,
Tammy Lonas, Teddi Moore and Ron Threlkel. The following members will be going
off the Board: Tim Booth, Phyllis O'Keefe, Steve Stewart, Dan Stuart, and
Barbara Threlkel. On behalf of the community, want to thank theses members for
their years of hard work, dedication and perseverance. It has always been our
goal as a Board to do God's will for our Community and we look forward to what
God will do in our Emmaus Community in the future.

We have two Walks scheduled this spring. The Women's Walk will be April 21-24,
2016 and the Men's Walk will be April 28-May I, 2015. Please be in prayer far
our Lay Directors (Nicki Lott, Womenzs and Ron Cummings, Men's) and the Team
Selection Committee as they put together their teams. Also, now is the time to
start thinking about sponsoring someone for the Walks.

As we approach the holiday season, let us always have an attitude of
thanksgiving and a spirit of joy and love, not only during the holidays, but
all year long.

De Colores!

Brenda W. Smith

B.G. Emmaus Community Lay Director



If you have ideas, questions, suggestions, etc., PLEASE feel free to email:
Mark Williams at "malmark.williams@gmail.com"

Prayer Request
Emmaus/Chrysalis Board Members - Chrysalis Flights - Emmaus Walks
[RonCummi]

Ron Cummings
Community Lay Director
Bowling Green Emmaus #37


Fellow Brothers & Sisters in CHRIST,

I am so excited for the Bowling Green/ South Central Kentucky Emmaus &
Chrysalis Community because the Spirit of the LORD is moving powerfully through
our community. The Men's Walk to Emmaus will be beginning Thursday Evening
September 13th at 6:00PM at the Christ United Methodist Church and the Women's
Walk the very next week starting on Thursday September 20th at same time and
location as the Men's Walk.
As our Community revives from it's slumber of the past few years, we must never
forget why this Community was formed to begin with, which was to bring ALL
people with a closer walk with our LORD JESUS CHRIST and to empower and
strengthen them to go back into each person's church and serve in a powerful
way.
I want each and every one of you to remember back to your own walk or flight
and reflect on the powerful and life changing experiences you had during your
special weekend. So I am asking for each of you to come and support these
pilgrims as they go through their "once in a lifetime" experience by serving in
some way (serving meals, candlelight, agape, snack food, etc.)
We MUST not quit and be diligent in our efforts to serve the LORD and the
spirit and movement of GOD will make this Community wonderful again and have a
waiting list for those who want to come on the Walk and for those who want to
serve on the Team.
I want to "Thank" all the loyal and faithful folks who have kept this Community
alive with their service and dedication, but now it is time for ALL of us to
move forward and make this the best Emmaus/ Chrysalis Community that it can be.
You can count on me to do whatever needs to be done and I will stand with each
and every one of you who are equally committed to serving out Lord.
DeColores and Fly With Christ!!

Ron Cummings
Community Lay Director

Tweet
[upa]
●
Purpose • Membership • Policies • Website
