Assembly of Yahweh

  • Home
  • Raw Foods
  • Youth
  • Photos
  • Links
  • Contact Us

 

  • Home
  • Raw Foods
  • Youth
  • Photos
  • Links
  • Contact Us

pastorsamuelgraham

Pastor Samuel Graham

Assembly of Yaweh

Assembly of Yahweh

Assembly-of-Yahweh-Eaton-Rapids
Assembly-of-Yahweh-Muskegon
Assembly-of-Yahweh-West-Virginia
Assembly-of-Yahweh-Detroit
Assembly-of-Yahweh-New-Jersey

Sacred Name Movement

Take a look around to learn about who we are and what we stand for. Check out
THE FAITH magazine and if you like what you see you can request a free
subscription.

[WOY-Bible-]
[Article-]
[The-Faith-]
Word of Yahweh 3rd Edition
Articles on Yahweh's Way
The Faith Magazine

The Word of Yahweh is a new edition of the Old Testament and New Testament
scriptures. In order for a new Bible edition to be successful it must fill a
need. This project had its origin at the 1999 Sacred Name Unity Conference in
Eaton Rapids, Michigan. At that conference a presentation was given calling for
a quality version of the Bible, emphasizing the sacred names of our Heavenly
Father and His Son.

With the generous contributions of both expertise and financial support of many
dedicated individuals in the Body of the Messiah, we present this Word of
Yahweh as an offering of love to our Heavenly Father Yahweh and His Son, our
savior, Yahshua. The primary objective in producing this version of the Bible
is to bring honor and praise to the Sacred Names of our Heavenly Father Yahweh
and His Son Yahshua.

OUR MOTTO: FORWARD WITH THE ORIGINALLY INSPIRED SCRIPTURES!

This magazine is published for the sake of truth in honor of our Heavenly
Father and His only begotten Son. It upholds the originally inspired
Scriptures, teaching to declare all the counsel of The Almighty One. It
proclaims the Father’s scholarly recognized name, YAHWEH, and the Son’s,
YAHSHUA, rather than substitutions. It upholds the Ten Commandments,
recognizing the name, Yahweh, in the third, and the seventh day Sabbath (not
the first day of the week) in the fourth. It stands for baptism (immersion) in
the name, Yahshua, the Messiah, according to Acts 2:38 and Matthew 28:19; the
ordinance of feet washing and the commemoration of the Messiah’s death, at the
Passover season; the set times of Unleavened Bread, Weeks (Pentecost),
Tabernacles, with all the yearly set apart convocation days of Leviticus 23. It
advocates tithing and the observance of Yahweh’s laws for our well being
including clean foods. It teaches repentance of sin (disobeying Yahweh), and
justification by faith in Yahshua, the Messiah, in whom we have redemption
through His blood; making right the whole man, physically and spiritually;
stressing the importance of the set apart righteous life, and the Power of
Yahweh’s Spirit of separation teaching the obedient to do His will. It is
supported by “called out ones of Yahweh,” which is the meaning of “Assembly of
Yahweh.” It is for those hearing and heeding the call of Revelation 18:4, and
is proclaiming to the world that Yahweh reigns, Psalm 96.

Original editor, C.O. Dodd

[ajax-loade]

  • Statement of Faith
  • Brief History of Sacred Name Movement
  • Bible Order Form
  • The Faith Magazine
  • Faith Bible & Tract Society

2015

  • Calendar of Feast Days
  • Unity Conference
  • Feast of Tabernacles
  • Guest Speaker

The Faith Magazine

  • 2000 to Current Year

Sabbath Services

                            The Assembly of Yahweh
                             1017 N. Gunnell Road
                            Eaton Rapids, MI 48827

                             Phone: (517) 663-1268

                                  Torah Study
                                  10:00 a.m.

                               Sabbath Services
                                  11:00 a.m.

                               Kosher Fellowship
                              Luncheon Afterwards

Directions to The Assembly of Yahweh

AOY Eaton Rapids, MI

  • 1017 N. Gunnell Road
    Eaton Rapid, MI 48827

Copyright (C) 2015 Assembly of Yahweh - Eaton Rapids, MI
 
