  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Google

Society of St. Margaret

  • Home
  • Our Life
      □ Daily Life
      □ Sisters
      □ Mission Partnerships
      □ History of the Society of St. Margaret
      □ Resources and Links
  • Locations
      □ Duxbury – Mother House
      □ Dorchester
      □ Haiti
      □ New York City
  • Vocations
      □ How does one become a Sister?
      □ Vocation Weekends
      □ Common Questions about Vocations
  • Stay with Us
      □ Group & Private Retreats
      □ Common Questions About Retreats
      □ What people say about Retreats at SSM
      □ Guest Houses
  • Associates
  • Support Us
      □ Make A Donation
      □ Ways to Give
      □ Giving Tuesday
  • Connect with Us
  • Events
  • News
      □ Chapel

Select Page
Welcome to the Society of St. Margaret

We are an Episcopal Religious Order of mission focused Sisters living an
ancient tradition with a modern outlook, and are called to glorify God and
proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ through our worship and work, prayer and
common life. Our commitment to God and to one another is expressed through vows
of poverty, celibate chastity and obedience.  As we offer hospitality and holy
space to individuals and groups at our Convent, work with inner-city children
and the indigent elderly, serve in parishes, and lead retreats and quiet days,
we seek always to live as Christ’s hands and heart in this world.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

News

Sisters of St. Margaret To Attend Cathedral Rededication And Seating of Bishop
Gates

Sisters of St. Margaret To Attend Cathedral Rededication And Seating of Bishop
Gates

by Sisters of St. Margaret | Nov 13, 2015 | Blog, News

The Sisters of St. Margaret are pleased to be attending and participating in
the rededication of the newly renovated Cathedral Church of St. Paul, and the
official seating of Bishop Alan M. Gates tonight during a special 7pm service
of Holy Eucharist. You can download the liturgy booklet from the Episcopal
Diocese of Massachusetts website (Diomass) here, and you can view a live
webcast of the special service from the Diomass website here. The Diocesan
Convention will follow tomorrow on Saturday, Nov. 14 and Sisters will be
participating in that event as well. We’ll update this post with photos after
the event and we’ll be posting to both our Facebook and Twitter accounts
regularly. Please follow us on these platforms for the latest news and... read
more Coffee and Conversation begins tomorrow…

Coffee and Conversation begins tomorrow…

by Sisters of St. Margaret | Nov 4, 2015 | Blog, News

We hope you can join us for our first Coffee and Conversation of the year at 10
am tomorrow, November 5th. We will be talking about our new Presiding Bishop
and the exciting events over the past weekend. Come if you can, no RSVP is...
read more
<< Older Entries

Search

Search for: [                    ] [Search]
[2015-Its-T]
Make a Gift or Donation

Upcoming Events

[CalendarIc]

Contact

St. Margaret's Convent PO Box C 50 Harden Hill RdDuxbury, MA 781-934-9477
sisters@ssmbos.org

Daily Worship of the Community

Guests are welcome to attend the daily worship. Our schedule is: 6:00 am:
Morning Prayer 7:30 am: Holy Eucharist 12:00 pm: An Order of Service for
Noonday 5:00 pm: Evening Prayer 7:30 pm: Compline (There is no corporate
worship on Mondays as this is the Sisters’ Sabbath Day. There is no Holy
Eucharist on Sunday)

Join Our Email List

                              Join Our Email List
                      For Email Marketing you can trust.

LOCATION

St. Margaret's Convent PO Box C 50 Harden Hill Rd Duxbury, MA 02331 Maps &
Directions

CONTACT US

781-934-9477 sisters@ssmbos.org Contact Us

CONNECT WITH US

[SistersStM]    [SistersStM]    [SistersStM]    [SistersStM]

Copyright 2015 Sisters of St. Margaret. All Rights Reserved. Produced by
Coastal Mountain Creative

