  • 416.733.2010
  • Admissions: Ext. 115; Early Learning Centre (Preschool) Ext. 110

TwitterFacebook
Peoples Christian Academy
Peoples Christian Academy
– Private School Markham North Toronto Richmond Hill

  • About Us
      □ Overview
          ☆ Overview
          ☆ Statement of Faith
          ☆ Statement of Core Family Values
          ☆ Philosophy of Education
      □ Testimonials
      □ Awards and Achievements
      □ Admissions & Tuition Fees
          ☆ Admissions & Tuition Fees
          ☆ Admissions – Canadian Students
          ☆ Admissions – International Students
      □ Faculty and Staff
      □ Board of Directors
      □ Support PCA
          ☆ Support PCA
          ☆ We Love PCA Club
          ☆ Planned Giving
      □ Contact
  • Early Learning Centre
      □ Overview
      □ Staff
  • Junior School
      □ Overview
      □ Faculty
      □ Spiritual Life
      □ Curriculum
      □ Extra-curricular Activities
  • Middle School
      □ Overview
      □ Faculty
      □ Spiritual Life
      □ Curriculum
      □ Extra-curricular Activities
  • Senior School
      □ Overview
      □ Faculty
      □ Spiritual Life
          ☆ Spiritual Life
          ☆ Senior Missions Blog
          ☆ Gr 12 Grad Trip Blog
      □ Curriculum
          ☆ Curriculum
          ☆ Academic Excellence
          ☆ Destinations of Choice
      □ Extra-Curricular Activities
  • PCA Community
      □ Parents Committee
      □ School Event Calendar
      □ News/Event/Blog

MENU CLOSE back  
[                    ] [Go!]  
Early Learning Centre

(Preschool)

Junior
School

(JK/SK to Grade 5)

Middle
School

(Grade 6 to Grade 8)

Senior
School

(Grade 9 to Grade 12)

Welcome to Peoples Christian Academy

Nurture + Challenge.
Leadership + Stewardship.
Integrity + Creativity.
Truth + Faith.

Welcome to our website! Peoples Christian Academy, having built a strong
educational program since 1971, is pleased to showcase its programs, its staff,
and the features that distinguish it from other schools.

In the education marketplace we know that some schools possess features that
set them apart. As you navigate the site, you will note some of the strengths
which help set Peoples Christian Academy apart. Among them are the following:

  • a faith-based curriculum, offering a biblical worldview for all
    disciplines;
  • a proven track record in educational advancement;
  • a strong French program, starting in JK;
  • an all-grade program from Pre-K to Grade 12;
  • a school community that is growing in size and in diversity;
  • a global and local focus, demonstrating care and compassion for those who
    do not know Christ.

As you visit the site, we encourage you to schedule a tour. God bless!

Support PCA. Donate Online.

Why PCA

History of Excellence

Since 1971 PCA has been transforming hearts and minds, offering students an
academic education from a Christian perspective. At PCA we believe that
education encompasses spiritual, intellectual, emotional and physical
development.

The reputation that we have built since 1971 shows that students from PCA
generally respond well to the rigours of university, achieve marks in
university equal to those earned in high school and exhibit a high level of
character and maturity. Our reputation continues to grow internationally,
through referrals of very satisfied students and parents. Learn more »

Vision

Peoples Christian Academy is a missional school where children are trained in
Christ’s ways in order to be placed by Him in their respective mission fields
to defend Christian truth and values, serving His purpose for His glory.

Mission

Peoples Christian Academy is committed to preparing the whole person to reach
the whole world for Christ.

School Verse

“But they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up
with wings like eagles; they shall run and not be weary; they shall walk and
not faint.” Isaiah 40:31 (ESV)

News/Events/Blog

[IMG_50]
Joy to the World – Middle School/Senior School Christmas Concert
December 31, 2015
[IMG_56]
PCA Senior Missions – Ecuador
December 18, 2015
[2015-1]
Shepherds, Sheep and a Savior – ELC and Junior School Christmas Concert
December 16, 2015
[MS-Art]
2015-2016 Winter Extra-Curricular Programs Registration
December 10, 2015
[Isaiah]
Director’s message – God’s message of love
December 9, 2015
[SS-201]
SSAF U20 Men’s Volleyball Tournament
December 2, 2015
[TheQui]
The Quill – Dec 2015 edition is here
November 30, 2015
[MS-ACS]
ACSI Girls Volleyball Tournament 2015-16
November 30, 2015

Discover why our students excel

Contact us for a personal tour. We look forward to serving you and your family.

Schedule a tour today.

  • Early Learning Centre

  • JK/SK to Grade 12

  • Established 1971

  • French Program begins at JK

  • After-school extra-curricular activities

  • Hot Lunch Program

  • Faith: Christian, Non-denominational

  • Non-profit

  • Sibling discounts & Bursaries

  • Busing from Toronto

  • Member of Association of Christian  Schools International (ACSI) 

  • A Ministry of Education Inspected Private School

Admissions

  • Passionate and caring spirit

    One day when my 7 year old daughter and I were on the road, we heard sirens
    from an ambulance. When I was looking for where the ambulance was coming
    from, I noticed my daughter was bowing down her head.  I asked, "Are you
    scared?" She said, "No, I am praying. Teacher said, "when we hear ambulance
    passing by, that means someone is in trouble. We shall pray for the people
    involved." I thank PCA for instilling a passionate and caring spirit in my
    child.
    Carol L. (PCA parent)
  • We travel over an hour in each direction

    Why does my family travel over an hour in each direction just to drive our
    kids to Peoples Christian Academy?

    Last year, my son was in a disastrous situation at a public school.  On a
    regular basis, he either had gotten off the school bus and was left alone
    looking for an unlocked door to get to his kindergarten classroom, or in
    the evenings, he would be left helpless at the playground unable to find
    his correct school bus. This had continued for 6 months, until an old bus
    driver alerted me of her observation--that it was the school's (not my
    son’s) fault that he was repeatedly left unattended – nobody cares!

    Furthermore, my son frequently returned home from his old school with art
    work celebrating Muslim, Hindu, Buddhist and Bahá'í’s faith days or
    themes.  He countered my teachings on heaven with the curriculum-enforced
    concept of reincarnation, yet Christianity was never presented. Christmas
    was only about Frosty the Snowman or Santa and his reindeer.

    In the past half year at PCA, however, the tide has changed.  Now, he comes
    home with Bible verses and interesting materials that have helped him to
    learn about spiritual truths.  His reading has improved tremendously; he
    enjoys music instruction, and he feels safe on the school grounds. Everyone
    from the office to the after-school program staff show true Christian care.
    Lily K. (PCA parent)
  • We are so blessed to have our children in PCA.
    William and Angela (PCA Parents)
  • PCA nurtured so many spiritual leaders who are now serving in churches
    (including our church) and other places of the world.  Our kids also got
    strong and solid Christian education here.
    Priscilla and Jonathan (PCA Parents)
  • Both of our children attended the Peoples School many years ago and we are
    forever thankful for the positive influence the teachers and staff had in
    their lives.  Thank you.
    Dave and Joyce (PCA Parents)
  • Once again, we thank God for your commitment and sacrifices for this
    ministry. May God continue to bless every staff member and volunteer who
    have endlessly poured out their lives to train the students in God's way.
    We pray that PCA will continue to grow in numbers as well as be spiritually
    stronger each and every day. This is a dark and broken world, and there is
    a great need for God's soldiers in our future generation. Keep up the good
    work! To Him be the glory!
    Alex L. (PCA Parent)
  • Peoples Christian Academy is academically strong.

    It was in these classrooms that my three sons were challenged to reach
    high, trained to work hard and inspired to think ‘outside the box’.

    Gifted, well qualified and supportive teachers and staff greeted my boys
    each day. In this caring community, teachers often gave precious time and
    help beyond the call of duty to their students. Music, drama, tutoring,
    sports teams, community service and mission trips were all part of the
    ’extras’. Each of my ’boys’ (now men), greatly benefited from these
    additional helps, enabling them to become more confident, skilled and well
    rounded as individuals.

    To my sons as well as my husband and me, it is the long lasting friendships
    with both staff and fellow student’s that has made Peoples school that
    extra special place for each of us.

    As a distinctively Christian school, my sons were challenged and inspired
    to see life through biblical principles and to follow Jesus. Hence, PCA’s
    influence has formed the underpinning of ideas and values that now fuel my
    children’s future.

    My hope is to encourage you also to give your child a similar opportunity
    for growth and accomplishment, by sending them to Peoples Christian
    Academy. We are forever grateful for this school and it’s influence in all
    our lives.
    Cathy D. (PCA parent)
  • Dear PCA,

    From the bottom of our hearts, we would like to sincerely thank each and
    every teacher, parent, student, and everyone else from PCA who gave us and
    continues to give us support and prayer through this difficult time. I am
    so grateful to have placed my children in a school where such strong
    relationships are built. I can sleep well knowing that I have made the
    right decision having my children go to a school that not only gives an
    excellent education, but great long-lasting friendships, and a solid
    Christian foundation. I know that the faculty and friends that my children
    meet at PCA will all influence them in some way for the future, and I am
    not worried. PCA is like family to me, and I am so thankful for each and
    every one of you.
    Sincerely, Kenneth Y. and Family

More Testimonials

FacebookshareTwittertweet
Peoples Christian Academy
Peoples Christian Academy has served 5000+ students and their families in
Markham and the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) including Toronto, Richmond Hill,
Thornhill, Vaughan, Newmarket, Stouffville and Scarborough since 1971.

  • Home Page
  • Early Learning Centre
  • Junior School
  • Middle School
  • Senior School
  • Testimonials
  • Awards and Achievements
  • Admissions and Tuition Fees
  • Contact

Schedule a tour:
Name *[                    ] E-mail *[                    ] Telephone *
[                    ]
         [                    ]
         [                    ]
Message *[                    ]

Submitclear[submit]

Search
[                    ] [Go!]  
© 1971-2015 Peoples Christian Academy (PCA) Inc. All rights reserved. Peoples
Christian Academy, established 1971, is a private christian school serving
Markham, Toronto, Richmond Hill, Thornhill, Newmarket, Stouffville, GTA.
Schedule a tour today and discover why our students excel.
 

  • [christian-school-toronto-markham_6384-e1441499043708]
    Home. Church. …and School.
  • [Faces-12-edited]
    Welcome to
  • [PCA-Students]
    Peoples Christian Academy
  • [Faces-2-e1441497554337]
    Discover why…
  • [Middle-School-Chapel-2-e1417250170831]
    our students excel…
  • [ACSI-Spelling-Bee-Champion-2014-e1417078313705]
    academically…
  • [Senior-School-Missions-7-e1441499480757]
    and SPIRITUALLY.
  • [245-Renfrew]
    See what our community says =>
    details

