Chameleon Logo

  • About Us
      □ Our Beliefs
      □ Our History
      □ Ministry & Service
  • Posts
      □ Reports
      □ Testimonies
  • Calendar
      □ Upcoming Events
  • Members
      □ Announcements
      □ Audio
      □ Mailing List
      □ Phone List Form
      □ HWMR Sign Up
  • Contact Us
      □ Contact Form
      □ Map & Directions

[Search this site... ] [search_btn]
Previous Next
Welcome

Welcome

The church in Dunn Loring, Virginia warmly welcomes you. We are believers in
the Lord Jesus Christ who have personally received Him as our Savior. He is the
most excellent and enjoyable Person. We love Him and endeavor to give Him the
first place in all things. We rejoice to be...

Read More
Our Faith

Our Faith

We hold the common faith which is revealed in the Bible and is common to all
genuine believers.  We highly treasure the Holy Bible as God’s revelation of
Himself and of His eternal purpose.

Read More
Our Goal

Our Goal

We have just one goal– to experience Christ for the building up of His Body,
the Church.  To reach this goal, we gather frequently to study the Bible,
foster a life in Christ, establish our young ones in the faith, serve mankind
with the gospel, and encourage one...

Read More
Our Fellowship

Our Fellowship

As is true of all believers in Christ, we are members of His one Body, the
church. In order to practice the oneness of the Body with all the Christians in
Dunn Loring, we meet as the church in Dunn Loring. We are in fellowship with
over 2,000 local churches worldwide to express...

Read More

Who We Are

Who We Are

We are believers in the Lord Jesus Christ who have personally received Him as
our Savior. He is the most excellent and enjoyable Person. We love Him and
endeavor to give Him the first place in all things. We rejoice to be cleansed
by the blood of Jesus, God’s Son, born again of the Father’s divine life, and
filled with the Holy Spirit.

We highly treasure the Holy Bible as God’s revelation of Himself and of His
eternal purpose. We hold the common faith which is revealed in the Bible and is
common to all genuine believers.

We gather together simply as believers of the Lord in the city of Dunn Loring,
and we receive as our brothers and sisters all who believe in Jesus Christ.  We
are in fellowship with over 2,000 local churches worldwide to express the one
Body of Christ.

Recent Announcements

Recent Announcements

1/11   The Holy Word for Morning Revival – The Crucial Points of the Major
Items of the Lord’s Recovery Today – Week 5: The Eternal Life.

1/11   Life-study Reading Schedule – Life-study of Exodus, Messages 123 and
124.

1/13   Prayer Meeting in the homes, 7:45 pm.

1/16   Corporate Morning Revival – All saints are encouraged to enjoy the Lord
together for corporate morning revival at the meeting hall at 9:30 am. All
saints are also welcome to stay and clean afterwards, along with saints that
have last names beginning with I-Pa.

 

 

CLICK HERE to view full listings of the weekly announcements, or click on “
Members>Announcements”  in the navigation bar above.

Contact Us

Contact Us

Phone: (703) 204-9039
Email: churchindunnloring@gmail.com
Address: 2317 Morgan Lane, Dunn Loring, VA 22027

 

Meeting Times

10:00 am Lord’s Day for worship at the meeting hall

8:00 pm Wednesday for prayer in the homes or at the hall

Various small group meetings in homes every night of the week for singing,
prayers, Bible studies, and fellowship.

©2012 The Church in Dunn Loring. All Rights Reserved.

