YouTube Twitter RSS
YouTube Twitter RSS
[OLG-Link]

FRANCISCAN VOCATIONS

Our Lady of Guadalupe Province
 
Skip to content

  • Home
  • About Us
      □ Formation Process
          ☆ Postulancy
      □ Franciscan History
      □ Franciscan Way of Life
      □ Ministries
          ☆ Hispanic Ministry
          ☆ Navajo Ministry
          ☆ Pueblo Ministry
          ☆ Other Ministries
      □ Our Province
      □ Vocation Director/Promotor de Vocaciones
  • Contact Us
  • Events
  • How to Apply
  • Videos
  • Links

[6] [5] [1] [3] [2]

Read more

Read more

Read more

Read more

Vocation Office Animator

[CM-at-OST]

My name is Fr. Charlie Martinez, O.F.M. I am the Vocation Director for Our Lady
of Guadalupe Province. Welcome to our Vocation Website. If you feel called to
be a follower of St. Francis, you're in the right place. What attracts you to
the Franciscans?  Is it the experience of our founder St. Francis of Assisi?
You may know that during the years of his discernment, Francis struggled with
his vocation and the direction his life should take. Perhaps you feel the same
struggle. Francis had many options in life that he thought might fulfill his
dreams. Yet in the back of his mind there was always the subtle voice of the
Lord calling him to something greater. In time the young Francis found the
courage to do something with his life that was radically different from what
his close friends and others thought he should be doing. Like Francis, it is
good for us also to ask the deeper questions of where we are going, how we are
to get there, and what God wants us to do. A religious vocation is a special
call from God and is different for each person. As unique as we are in the
sight of God, that’s how unique your call to our Franciscan way of life might
be. If you feel that you may be called to explore our ministries as a follower
of St. Francis and want to know more about our way of life, contact us and
permit us to assist you in your personal discernment process. Write to me at
charlieofm@aol.com and let me know how I can assist you.
Our Lady of Guadalupe Province
Vocation Office olgvocations.org @ 2015
Powered by Nirvana & WordPress.
YouTube Twitter RSS
