     ST STEPHEN, THE FIRST MARTYR
     Feast: December 26
     ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
     [See Acts vi. vii., and Tillemont,, t.. ii. p.. I, Cave, &c.]

     That St. Stephen was a Jew is unquestionable, himself owning that
     relation in his apology to the people. But whether he was of Hebrew
     extraction and descended of the stock of Abraham, or whether he was
     of foreign parents incorporated and brought into that nation by the
     gate of proselytism, is uncertain. The name Stephen, which signifies
     a crown, is evidently Greek; but the priest Lucian, in the history
     of the discovery of his relics, and Basil of Seleucia,[1] inform us,
     that the name Cheliel, which in modern Hebrew signifies a crown, was
     engraved on his tomb at Caphragamala. It is generally allowed that
     he was one of the seventy-two disciples of our Lord; for immediately
     after the descent of the Holy Ghost, we find him perfectly
     instructed in the law of the gospel, endowed with extraordinary
     measures, both of the interior and exterior gifts of that divine
     Spirit which was but lately shed upon the church, and incomparably
     furnished with miraculous powers. The church of Christ then
     increased daily, and was illustrious for the spirit and practice of
     all virtues, but especially for charity. The faithful lived and
     loved one another as brethren, and were of one heart and one soul.

     The rich sold their estates to relieve the necessities of the poor
     and deposited the money in one common treasury, the care whereof was
     committed to the apostles, to see the distribution made as
     everybody's necessity required. Heaven alone is free from all
     occasions of offence, and the number of converts being very great,
     the Greeks (that is, the Christians of foreign countries, who were
     born and brought up in countries which spoke chiefly Greek or at
     least were Gentiles by descent, though proselytes to the Jewish
     religion before they came over to the faith of Christ) murmured
     against the Hebrews, complaining that their widows were neglected in
     the daily ministration. The apostles, to provide a speedy remedy,
     assembled the faithful, and observed to them that they could not
     relinquish the duties of preaching and other spiritual functions of
     the ministry, to attend to the care of tables; and recommended to
     them the choice of seven men of an unblemished character, full of
     the Holy Ghost and wisdom, who might superintend that affair, that
     so themselves might be freed from distractions and incumbrances, the
     more freely to devote themselves without interruption to prayer and
     preaching the gospel. This proposal was perfectly agreeable to the
     whole assembly, who immediately pitched on Stephen, "a man full of
     faith and the Holy Ghost," and Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon,
     Parmenas, and Nicholas, a proselyte of Antioch. All these names are
     Greek; whence some think they were chosen among the Greeks in order
     to appease the murmurs that had been raised. But it frequently
     happened that Hebrews changed their names into Greek words of a like
     import when they conversed with Greeks and Romans, to whom several
     names in the Oriental languages sounded harsh, and were difficult to
     pronounce. Stephen is named first of the deacons, as Peter is of the
     apostles, says St. Austin. Hence he is styled by Lucian, archdeacon.

     St. Stephen had the primacy and precedence among the deacons newly
     elected by the apostles, as St. Chrysostom observes, and being
     filled with the Holy Ghost, preached and pleaded the cause of
     Christianity with undaunted courage, confirming his doctrine by many
     public and unquestionable miracles. The number of believers were
     multiplied in Jerusalem, and a great multitude, even of the priests,
     obeyed the faith. The distinguished zeal and success of our holy
     deacon stirred up the malice and envy of the enemies of the gospel,
     who bent their whole force and all their malice against him. The
     conspiracy was formed by the Libertines (or such as had been carried
     captives to Rome by Pompey, and had since obtained their freedom),
     those of Cyrene in Lybia, of Alexandria, Cilicia, and Lesser Asia,
     who had each a distinct synagogue at Jerusalem. At first they
     undertook to dispute with St. Stephen; but finding themselves
     unequal to the task and unable to resist the wisdom and spirit with
     which he spoke, they suborned false witnesses to charge him with
     blasphemy against Moses and against God. The indictment was laid
     against him in the Sanhedrim, and the saint was hauled thither.
     After the charge was read, Caiphas, the high priest, ordered him to
     make his defence. The main point urged. against him was that he
     affirmed that the temple would be destroyed, that the Mosaic
     sacrifices were but shadows and types, and were no longer acceptable
     to God, Jesus of Nazareth having put

     an end to them. It pleased God to diffuse a heavenly beauty and a
     shining brightness on the saint's face, whilst he stood before the
     council, so that to all that were present it seemed as if it had
     been the countenance of an angel. According to the licence given him
     by the high priest to speak for himself, he made his apology, but in
     such a manner as boldly to preach Jesus Christ in the Sanhedrim
     itself. He showed that Abraham, the father and founder of their
     nation, was justified, and received the greatest favours of God
     without the temple; that Moses was commanded to erect a tabernacle,
     but foretold a new law and the Messiah; that Solomon built the
     temple, but it was not to be imagined that God was confined in
     houses made by hands, and that the temple and the Mosaic law were
     temporary ministrations, and were to give place when God introduced
     more excellent institutions. The martyr added, that this he had done
     by sending the Messiah himself; but that they were, like their
     ancestors, a stiff-necked generation, circumcised in body but not in
     heart, and always resisting the Holy Ghost; and that as their
     fathers had persecuted and slain many of the prophets who foretold
     the Christ, so they had betrayed and murdered Him in person, and
     though they had received the law by the ministry of angels, they had
     not observed it.

     This stinging reproach touched them to the quick and kindled them
     into a rage, gnashing with their teeth at the holy martyr and
     expressing all the symptoms of unbridled passion. The saint, not
     heeding what was done below, had his eyes and heart fixed on higher
     objects, and being full of the Holy Ghost and looking up steadfastly
     to the heavens, saw them opened, and beheld his divine Saviour
     standing at the right hand of his Father appearing by that posture
     ready to protect, receive, and crown his servant. With this vision
     the saint was inexpressibly ravished, his soul was inspired with new
     courage, and a longing to arrive at that bliss a glimpse of which
     was shown him. His heart overflowed with joy and in an ecstasy, not
     being able to forbear expressing his happiness in the very midst of
     his enemies, he said, "Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son
     of man standing at the right hand of God." The Jews became more
     hardened and enraged by hearing the saint's declaration of this
     vision; and calling him a blasphemer, resolved upon his death
     without any further process. In the fury of their blind zeal they
     stayed not for a judicial sentence nor for the warrant of the Roman
     governor, without which no one could at that time be legally put to
     death amongst them. But stopping their ears against his supposed
     blasphemies, they with great clamour rushed upon him, furiously
     hauled him out of the city, and with a tempest of stones satiated
     their rage against him. The witnesses who, according to the
     Levitical law, were to begin the execution in all capital cases,[2]
     threw their clothes at the feet of Saul, who thus partook of their
     crime.[3] In the meantime the holy martyr prayed, saying, "Lord
     Jesus, receive my spirit." And falling on his knees, he cried with a
     loud voice and the greatest earnestness, "Lord, lay not this sin to
     their charge." When he said this he had fell asleep in the Lord.
     This word is used by the Holy Ghost elegantly to express the
     sweetness of the death of the just, which is to them a test after
     the toils of this painful life a secure harbour after the dangers of
     this mortal pilgrimage and the gate to eternal life. The edification
     and manifold advantages which the church received from the martyrdom
     of this great and holy man compensated the loss which it sustained
     in him. Certain devout men took order to inter him in a decent
     manner and made great mourning over him, though such a death was his
     own most glorious triumph and unparalleled gain. The priest Lucien,
     who recounts the manner of the miraculous discovery of his relics in
     the fifth century, informs us that they were deposited about twenty
     miles from Jerusalem, by the direction of Gamaliel and at his
     expense.[4] St. Stephen seems to have suffered towards the end of
     the same year in which Christ was crucified.

     In the whole life of our divine Redeemer we have the most perfect
     pattern of meekness. During his ministry he meekly bore with the
     weakness, ignorance, and prejudices of some; with the perverseness,
     envy, and malice of others; with the ingratitude of friends, and the
     pride and insolence of enemies. How affecting is the most patient
     silence which he held in the courts of unjust judges, and through
     the whole course of his passion! How did he confirm this example
     which he had given us by spending his last breath in fervent prayer
     for his murderers! With what ardour and assiduity did he press upon
     us the practice of this virtue of meekness, and inculcate its
     indispensable obligation and unspeakable advantage! St. Stephen
     inherited more perfectly this spirit in proportion as he was more
     abundantly replenished with the Holy Ghost. No one who is
     passionate, unforgiving, and revengeful, can be a follower of the
     meek and humble Jesus. In vain do such assume to themselves the
     honour of bearing his name. In charity, meekness, and humility,
     consists the very spirit of Christianity; and scarce anything
     dishonours religion more than the prevalence of the opposite spirit
     in those who make a profession of piety.

     ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
     
     Endnotes

     1 Basil Seleuc. Or. de St Stephano.

     2 Deut. xvii. 7.

     3 Acts xxii. 20, and vii. 57.

     4 See on the 3rd of August.

     ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
     
     (Taken from Vol. IV of "The Lives or the Fathers, Martyrs and Other
     Principal Saints" by the Rev. Alban Butler.)

     ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                            Provided Courtesy of:
                       Eternal Word Television Network
                             5817 Old Leeds Road
                              Irondale, AL 35210
                                 www.ewtn.com


       HOME - EWTNews -FAITH - TELEVISION - RADIO - LIBRARY - GALLERY -
                 CATALOGUE - WHAT'S NEW MULTIMEDIA - GENERAL
                                   ESPAÑOL

                                       

