  • The MethoBlog
      □ Submit your blog…
      □ Article Submission
  • United Methodist Reporter
  • CircuitWriter Media

the MethoBlog

musings of the methodist world

[DFT-your-b]

  • About Us
  • OurBlog
  • Submit your blog…
      □ Media
  • Article Submission
  • The MethoArchives
  • Advertise

What we’re reading…

Mercy Not Sacrifice | Three Islamic concepts I wish Christians would adopt

Ross Douthat has been playing amateur theologian again in the New York Times.
This time, he’s telling Muslims how they need to adapt their inherently
“illiberal” faith to assimilate better into Western culture. There are
definitely some ways in which Islam is inherently incompatible with our
capitalist society, and I ...
Read More
December 14, 2015 / by Morgan Guyton

United Methodeviations | The Values of Christmas

Television, especially the commercials, makes me sick this time of year.  And
not just now, but from Halloween on, when marketers nationwide begin the
barrage of unrelenting crass consumeristic addiction-baiting, all in the name
of Christmas.  The cultural values of image, power, prestige, greed,
consumption, acquisition, ownership, luxury, glamor, gluttony ...
Read More
December 14, 2015 / by Dan R. Dick

YouthWorker Movement | The Middle

“He himself is before all things, and in him all things hold together”
(Colossians 1:17). It’s hard to make it through Advent without seeing the
nativity scene in one of its many variations. It’s a beautiful scene. Mary and
Joseph huddled close around the Christ child. Wise men, shepherds, and angels
...
Read More
December 14, 2015 / by Todd Lovell

The latest from the MethoBlogoSphere

 

General Board of Global Ministries | United Methodist Disaster Responders
Receive Public Recognition

What do award-winning disaster responders have in common? ...
Read More
January 12, 2016 / by General Board of Global Ministries
 

The Thoughtful Pastor | Muslim Refugees: You Need to Meet Us Half Way

The repercussions are nightmarish. As we get more information about the
December 31, 2015 attack by young male refugees on women in Cologne, Germany,
the more disturbing the situation becomes. A short recap for those not familiar
with the story: organized groups … ...
Read More
January 12, 2016 / by Christy Thomas
 

UM & Global | Recommended reading: Titus Pressler and Hunter Farrell on mission
networks

Titus Pressler recently wrote this blog post in which he commented on Hunter
Farrell's blog post about mission networks. Both are worth reading for some
reflections on the growth and character of networks that unite congregations
and other organizations related to mission but are separate from the formal
mission organizations that have historically characterized mainline mission.
Thanks to Dana Robert for passing along Titus' post ...
Read More
January 12, 2016 / by David W. Scott
 

Wesley Bros. | Calvinists are often quick to dismiss Arminians as “Pelagian”
or…

Calvinists are often quick to dismiss Arminians as “Pelagian” or
“semi-Pelagian.”  Aside from the fact that they need to up their taunt-game, it
is a categorically untrue accusation of actual Arminian theology.Pelagius, the
5th century contemporary of Augustine, taught that we have the natural ability
to follow Christ, that our nature is essentially good.  Augustine countered
with an argument of original sin, that every inclination of the human heart was
ultimately self-centered.  For Augustine, it ...
Read More
January 12, 2016 / by Wesley Bros.
 

Thoughts From The Heart On The Left | How Do We Do It

A Meditation for 17 January 2016, the 2nd Sunday after the Epiphany (Year C),
based on Isaiah 62: 1 – 5, 1 Corinthians 12: 1 – 11, and John 2: 1 – 11 I
personally believe that today’s Gospel reading illustrates or typifies the
problem with Christianity today. There are those who feel that we should take
what is written in the Bible as it is and ask no questions about it. Their
reasoning is two-fold. First, ...
Read More
January 12, 2016 / by DrTony
 

Bob Kaylor | Disoriented Orientations: When Sex Becomes an Idol

Part II of “Redeeming Sex” A few years back there was a media report going
around about the rock singer Sting who, according to the report, claimed that
he was a practitioner of an ancient eastern form of Tantric sex and could “make
love for eight hours a night.” This was big news in the […] The post
Disoriented Orientations: When Sex Becomes an Idol appeared first on Bob Kaylor
...
Read More
January 12, 2016 / by Bob Kaylor
 

SOUND BITES: Something to chew on that is good for the soul™ | LET US WORSHIP
AND ADORE HIM

The first element in worship is adoration. The Hebrews expressed this by their
posture and not alone by their word. For they prostrated themselves before God.
"O come, let us worship and bow down: let us kneel before the Lord our Maker."
(Psalm 95:6) They did not come with an easy familiarity into the presence of
God, but were aware of His greatness and majesty, and came with a sense of
privilege to His house.-- ...
Read More
January 12, 2016 / by Rev. Dave Wilkinson
 

Sunday's Child | Measurement, a reflection on Mark 4:21-25

Jesus then explained the meaning of the parable of the soils to them, how first
enthusiasm doesn't always last but true acceptance of the message will yield
results.He followed the soil parable with one about lamps. What good is a lamp
that you keep hidden? The light from that lamp is not meant just for you.
Share, don't hoard.Jesus told them to listen carefully: God will evaluate you
by the same standard you use to ...
Read More
January 12, 2016 / by Sue Whitt
 

nashvillian pastoral | Kill your darlings

I'm in the midst of writing a very important, emotional letter.  I actually
don't know if this letter will ever be read by anyone but me, but that's sort
of beside the point right now.  It's one of those painful, liberating pieces of
writing that really lays out my emotional landscape.  I'm lucky that the person
to whom this letter is addressed is someone who knows me well, and feels safe.
But what keeps coming ...
Read More
January 12, 2016 / by Emily
 

#RethinkJesus | The Word Became Flesh

  Do Muslims and Christians worship the same God? On December 15, 2015, Wheaton
College, evangelical school in Chicago, placed a tenured professor on
administrative leave for making comments that they felt were contrary to their
Statement of Faith. Dr. Larycia Hawkins, political science professor, wanted to
show solidarity with her Muslim neighbors by wearing a hijab as part of her
Advent discipline. It wasn’t the stand of solidarity that brought her the
attention of the ...
Read More
January 12, 2016 / by jameyprickett
Click here to read more from the MethoBlogoSphere...

Our blog…

 

Filled with Joy and Living in Hope

Each day can be amazing because the risen, ascended, and active Christ makes a
difference in our daily living. Because of Christ, we are filled with joy and
live in hope because we can see the Lord always before us ...
Read More
 

Filled with Joy and Living in Hope

Each day can be amazing because the risen, ascended, and active Christ makes a
difference in our daily living. Because of Christ, we are filled with joy and
live in hope because we can see the Lord always before us ...
Read More
 

Filled with Joy and Living in Hope

Each day can be amazing because the risen, ascended, and active Christ makes a
difference in our daily living. Because of Christ, we are filled with joy and
live in hope because we can see the Lord always before us ...
Read More
Click here to read more from Our Blog...
[methoblogf]

  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 

[Search]
[methoblogb]
[YSF-Banner]
[Reform]
[DFT-adult-]
[SQ]
[GetCWMEmai]
UMR / CWM / MethoBlog
P.O Box 246
Wichita Falls, TX 76307
Tel: (615) 673-4236
Contact Us

CONNECT

  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 

RSS the United Methodist Reporter

  • Tim Bias out as Discipleship Ministries General Secretary
  • Commentary: Good church members or disruptive disciples?
  • Bishop James Dorff resigning due to improper relations

RSS United Methodist New Service

  • Old Mutare Hospital combats maternal mortality
  • Orphanage shelters children in war-torn East Congo
  • Strengthening ministry with Hispanics

Copyright (C) 2016 · CircuitWriter Media · Log in

