  • Home
  • About
  • Archive
  • Authors
  • Live
  • Get Involved
  • Contact

Subscribe via RSS Feed
The Pneuma Review
Journal of Ministry Resources and Theology for Pentecostal and Charismatic
Ministries & Leaders
banner ad

  • Spirit
  • Living the Faith
  • Ministry
  • Church History
  • Biblical Studies
  • In Depth

Featured

  • [blank]
  • [blank]
  • [blank]
  • [blank]

  • William De Arteaga: Agnes Sanford and Her Companions, reviewed by Jon
    Ruthven

    William De Arteaga: Agnes Sanford and Her Companions, reviewed by Jon
    Ruthven

    William L. De Arteaga, Agnes Sanford and Her Companions: The Assault on
    Cessationism and the Coming of the Charismatic Renewal (Eugene, OR: Wipf &
    Stock, 2015), ISBN 9781625649997 William De Arteaga has created a
    ground-breaking, major contribution that is foundational to the evolving
    understanding of the Pentecostal/charismatic movement projected to reach
    811 million in only […]

  • Owen Strachan: The Colson Way, reviewed by Kelly Monroe Kullberg

    Owen Strachan: The Colson Way, reviewed by Kelly Monroe Kullberg

    Owen Strachan, The Colson Way: Loving Your Neighbor and Living with Faith
    in a Hostile World (Thomas Nelson, 2015). The Colson Way, by Owen Strachan,
    models, urges and inspires a new generation of courageous Christians to
    engage and to lead. Wanted: Torch-bearers in the lineage of Augustine,
    Luther, Wilberforce, Bonhoeffer, Schaeffer, Henry and Colson. (Where […]

  • The theology and influence of Karl Barth: an interview with Terry Cross

    The theology and influence of Karl Barth: an interview with Terry Cross

    Karl Barth was an influential Swiss Reformed theologian that lived from
    1886 to 1968. Featured on postage stamps and the cover of Time (April 20,
    1962), today we would call him a rock star among theologians. A strong
    critic of those Christians who supported the Nazis, Barth is best known for
    his involvement in the […]

  • That the life of Jesus may be manifested: An interview with Dan Izzett

    That the life of Jesus may be manifested: An interview with Dan Izzett

    What would you do if you learned you had leprosy? Pastor John Lathrop
    interviews pastor and missionary Dan Izzet about his ministry and advocacy
    for those afflicted with the ancient, debilitating disease.   John Lathrop:
    Please tell us where you come from and how you began your walk with Jesus.
    Dan Izzett: When I was […]

Amazon.com Widgets

  • Spirit (more)

  • The Bible’s Undertaker: Cessationism in Contrast to a Living, Miraculous
    Christianity

    The Bible’s Undertaker: Cessationism in Contrast to a Living, Miraculous
    Christianity

    Introduction Twentieth century Pentecostalism reawakened the world to
    miracles. The growth of this movement activated individuals in established
    religion to wrestle with a major player on the world scene of Christianity.
    Even so, as Pentecostalism expands, the cessationist view resuscitates

    September 24, 2015 | 1 comment | View Post

  • Jack Levison: Fresh Air

    Jack Levison: Fresh Air

    Jack Levison, Fresh Air: the Holy Spirit for an Inspired Life (Brewster,
    MA: Paraclete Press: 2012), 217 pages, 9781612610689. Jack Levison, in his
    work Fresh Air: the Holy Spirit for an Inspired Life, aims to clear a
    foggy, often caricatured

    August 13, 2015 | 0 comments | View Post

  • Living the Faith (more)

  • How Much Do You Read Your Bible?

    How Much Do You Read Your Bible?

    A timely encouragement from R. T. Kendall to invest time in reading the
    Word of God.   This is the most important Blog I have written in many
    years. I pray with all my heart that this will be read

    January 7, 2016 | 0 comments | View Post

  • Jefferson Bethke: Jesus is greater than Religion

    Jefferson Bethke: Jesus is greater than Religion

    Jefferson Bethke, Jesus > Religion: Why He Is So Much Better Than Trying
    Harder, Doing More, and Being Good Enough (Thomas Nelson, 2013), 240 pages,
    ISBN 9781400205394. Jefferson Bethke has a brilliant way with words. This
    is no surprise to

    January 4, 2016 | 0 comments | View Post

  • Ministry (more)

  • How Youth Ministry Could Fail The Church, by Jeff Grenell

    How Youth Ministry Could Fail The Church, by Jeff Grenell

    Here are  five ways that Youth Ministry could fail the Church. Unhealthy
    Youth Leaders There is a difference between ‘busyness’ and ‘business’. When
    Youth Leaders are busy, they burn out. Because they spend more time in
    programming and gaming than

    January 10, 2016 | 0 comments | View Post

  • White House Convention on Religious Pluralism

    White House Convention on Religious Pluralism

    Tony Richie Summarizes and Reflects on Special White House Convening:
    “Celebrating and Protecting America’s Tradition of Religious Pluralism”  
    On Thursday, December 17th from 1:00-4:30 PM the White House conducted a
    special convening on “Celebrating and Protecting America’s Tradition of

    January 1, 2016 | 0 comments | View Post

  • Church History (more)

  • I Stand with Christ: The Courageous Life of a Chinese Christian

    I Stand with Christ: The Courageous Life of a Chinese Christian

    Zhang Rongliang and Eugene Bach, I Stand with Christ: The Courageous Life
    of a Chinese Christian (Whitaker House, 2015), 240 pages, ISBN
    9781629113371. God has written a message to His Church in these last days
    through the lives of the

    December 8, 2015 | 0 comments | View Post

  • Biblical Studies (more)

  • William Atkinson: The Spiritual Death of Jesus

    William Atkinson: The Spiritual Death of Jesus

    William P. Atkinson, The ‘Spiritual Death’ of Jesus: A Pentecostal
    Investigation, Global Pentecostal and Charismatic Studies series (Brill,
    2009), 304 pages, ISBN 9789004171992. William P. Atkinson tackles the
    controversial issue of the supposed spiritual death of Jesus from a firm

    December 26, 2015 | 0 comments | View Post

  • Brandon Crowe: Was Jesus Really Born of a Virgin?

    Brandon Crowe: Was Jesus Really Born of a Virgin?

    Brandon D. Crowe, Was Jesus Really Born of a Virgin? (Phillipsburg: P & R
    Publishing, 2013), 30 pages, ISBN 9781596386808. Was Jesus Really Born of a
    Virgin? is one of a series of little books produced by P & R

    December 23, 2015 | 0 comments | View Post

  • In Depth (more)

  • Ian McFarland: From Nothing

    Ian McFarland: From Nothing

    Ian McFarland, From Nothing: A Theology of Creation (Louisville:
    Westminster John Knox Press, 2014), 212 pages. In the recent work, From
    Nothing: A Theology of Creation, Ian McFarland aims to defend and develop
    the classic doctrine of creation ex nihilo by arguing

    December 11, 2015 | 0 comments | View Post

  • Jim Croft: Charismatic Superstitions and Misconceptions

    Jim Croft: Charismatic Superstitions and Misconceptions

    Jim Croft, Charismatic Superstitions & Misconceptions (Mobile, AL:
    Evergreen Press, 2001), 115 + xi pages, ISBN 9781581690583. A valuable
    insight into a book can often be gained through reading the introduction,
    where you may find the author’s original purpose and

    December 2, 2015 | 0 comments | View Post

  • Other Recent Articles [archives            ]

  • Conference on Karl Barth’s Pneumatology and the Global Pentecostal Movement

    Conference on Karl Barth’s Pneumatology and the Global Pentecostal Movement

    Mark plans to attend the 2016 Karl Barth Conference June 19-22, 2016 at
    Princeton Theological Seminary. Conference description from The Center for
    Barth Studies: Karl Barth’s Pneumatology and the Global Pentecostal
    Movement Karl Barth’s pneumatology is a contentious subject, especially
    when read in critical relationship to his conception of divine and human
    agency and his […]

    January 8, 2016 | 0 comments | View Post

  • Fall 2015: Other Significant Articles

    Fall 2015: Other Significant Articles

    Dave Harvey, “Lessons on Church Planting from the Prince of Preachers”
    Crossway (August 19, 2015). Jim Harries, “Islam, Hinduism, and Buddhism are
    NOT ‘religions’” LinkedIn.com Pulse (September 22, 2015). In this new
    article, missionary-scholar Jim Harries challenges the idea of what
    “religion” is. A brief study in otherness. Chad Graham, “What I Got Wrong
    About […]

    December 29, 2015 | 0 comments | View Post

  • Watch Antipas Harris interview with Shane Perry

    Watch Antipas Harris interview with Shane Perry

    Shane Perry interviews Antipas Harris on TBN, Monday, January 4, 2016 at
    7pm EST. To see more from Antipas Harris, click on his name in the About
    the Author section below to see his author page where you will find a full
    listing of PneumaReview.com articles.

    December 28, 2015 | 0 comments | View Post

  • [enter search terms]search
  • 
      □ Popular
      □ Upcoming
      □ Subscribe
      □ Tags
      □ Six Ways the Holy Spirit Will Communicate With You, by Charles Carrin
      □ The Theological Pillow Fight from the Nosebleed Section
      □ John MacArthur’s Strange Fire, reviewed by Craig S. Keener
      □ White House Convention on Religious Pluralism
      □ John MacMillan and the Authority of the Believer
  • 01.19.2016 Introducing the Africanus Journal
  • 01.17.2016 Christian Leadership: Growing a Church or Impacting a Community?
  • 01.16.2016 Samuel Waje Kunhiyop: African Christian Theology
  • 01.14.2016 How to Pray Effectively for New Believers
  • 01.13.2016 Veli-Matti Karkkainen: Christ and Reconciliation

Subscribe to receive our weekly newsletter. Enter your

Email * [                    ] [                    ]

[Subscribe!] 
featured spirit church significant articles holy coming pentecostal reviewed
john theology keener part god fall craig issue jesus christian miracles summer
spring fire bible winter word interview matthew messiah tongues power
pentecostalism secret yong charismatic codes today bible commentary amos Kevin
M. Williams life healing gods michael praying
[INS::INS]
Connect with PneumaReview.com

Subscribe via Twitter 806 Followers   Subscribe via Facebook Fans
Recent Comments

  • John N Carri Hallock on Pietists as Pentecostal Forerunners
  • Dorothy Plake on Christ-Centered Prayer
  • Carolyn Baker on Christ-Centered Prayer
  • Yedija Vanutama on Nominate Books for 2016 Award of Excellence
  • Donald Krein on Condolences to the Grenell Family

Featured Authors

[AmosYong-Fu]

Amos Yong is Professor of Theology & Mission and director of the Center for
Missiological Research at Fuller Theological Seminary, Pasadena. His graduate
education includes degree...

Amos Yong: The Coming Global Christianity: Pietistic-Pentecostal Challenges and
Opportunities, Part 3
[AntipasHarr]

Antipas L. Harris, D.Min. (Boston University), S.T.M. (Yale University Divinity
School), M.Div. (Emory University), is Associate Professor of Practical
Theology and Director of the Y...

Watch Antipas Harris interview with Shane Perry
[CKeener_in_]

Craig S. Keener, Ph.D. (Duke University), is Professor of New Testament at
Asbury Theological Seminary; for the previous fifteen years he taught at Palmer
Theological Seminary ...

Craig Keener: The Blessings and Mission of Those Grafted In
[DennisBalco]

Dennis Balcombe knew he was called to be a missionary to China while he was a
teenager, and was one of the first to enter the mainland when it opened to the
West in the 1970s. He fou...

Paris 2015 Revival Chinese Training Conference

  • Recent Posts

      □ How Youth Ministry Could Fail The Church, by Jeff Grenell
      □ Conference on Karl Barth’s Pneumatology and the Global Pentecostal
        Movement
      □ How Much Do You Read Your Bible?

  • Archives

    [Select Month  ]
  • 

(C) Copyright The Pneuma Review 2016. All rights reserved.
