Alfred Place Baptist Church

Alfred Place Baptist Church

  • Sermons
  • MP3 Sermons
  • Articles
  • Bookshop
  • Blog
  • About Alfred Place
  • Contacts
  • Navigation

Welcome to the Alfred Place Church Website

The Christian faith has stood the test of time. It has its adherents all over
the world. All kinds and classes of people acknowledge that the Lord Jesus
Christ is the key to life. The basic teachings of the Christian faith always
need to be considered. What is Christianity? Is there any intellectual
justification for holding these beliefs today? How should Christians live now
we have reached the twenty-first century? If you live in the Aberystwyth area,
or are visiting, you are invited to come along to the Sunday meetings and hear
the Biblical answers to these and many other vital questions.

Current preaching is on Paul in Athens in the morning and a series on Romans in
the evenings. You may read these sermons here.

Some Words For Those Not Yet Christians – To whom shall we go?

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Recent Text Sermons

1:13 I Know Whom I Have Believed

Posted: January 11, 2016

2 Timothy 1:12 “I know whom I have believed, and am convinced that he is able
to guard what I have entrusted to him for that day.” Three great statements are
made by Paul here, and he is not speaking here…

0 comments

1:11-12 The Christian Speaks, Suffers, And Is Unashamed

Posted: January 11, 2016

2 Timothy 1:11&12 “And of this gospel I was appointed a herald and an apostle
and a teacher. That is why I am suffering as I am. Yet I am not ashamed.” There
are many nations in the world, but…

0 comments

Return To The Lord

Posted: January 5, 2016

Hosea 14:1&2 “Return, O Israel, to the LORD your God. Your sins have been your
downfall! Take words with you and return to the LORD. Say to him: ‘Forgive all
our sins and receive us graciously, that we may offer…

0 comments

God’s Love For Gomer

Posted: January 5, 2016

Hosea 2:19&20 “I will betroth you to me for ever; I will betroth you in
righteousness and justice, in love and compassion. I will betroth you in
faithfulness, and you will acknowledge the LORD.” We are considering the
amazing love…

0 comments

Recent mp3 Sermons


If you save or print this page you must include the following: Alfred Place
Baptist Church, Aberystwyth.

Copyright (C) 2016 Alfred Place Baptist Church Theme by: Theme Horse Powered
by: WordPress
Back to Top
