Schlock Mercenary

Wednesday January 13, 2016
[schlock20160113]
Shop Community Archives Blog Archive Fan Art The Author Contact

[SchlockPat]

 

 

 

Related Features

  • Schlock for iPhone, iPad, & Android
  • Schlock Coloring for iPhone and iPad
  • Ovalkwiki - The Official Encyclopedia
  • Get Schlock via Email
  • Writing Excuses with Brandon Sanderson, Dan Wells, Mary Robinette Kowal,
    and Howard Tayler
  • One Cobble at a Time - Sandra Tayler's excellent blog
  • An Unofficial Anecdotal History of Challenge Coins
  • Howard Tayler's Hub
  • Howard's Appearance Schedule
  • Howard's 2015 Movie Rankings

                                Support Schlock

                                Shop at Amazon

Begin your shopping trip with this link or any of the ad links below, and
Howard gets up to 8% of what you spend at Amazon.com at no additional charge to
you.
Monday January 11, 2016

First Blog Post of the New Year!

Seems I waited quite a while before putting up a new blog post here. 2016 has
been really busy so far, which is nice, because it's the "getting things done"
kind of busy, rather than the "putting out fires" kind of busy.

I'll write more later, I guess? At this moment I'm waiting for food to come out
of the food machine, and then I will eat the food and start getting more things
done. 

I really hope I do not need to put out a fire in the food machine. 

 
Tuesday December 29, 2015

Barsk: The Elephants' Graveyard, by Lawrence M. Schoen

Finally, you get to read Barsk: The Elephants' Graveyard, by Lawrence Schoen.

[BarskTheEl]I got to read it early this year, and I loved it. I wanted to tell
you about it, but I was told in no uncertain terms that I needed to wait,
because you would not be able to have it until the very endmost days of the
year, and we would all be happier (you, me, Lawrence, and the publisher) if I
held off.

This is science fiction that gets the aliens right. With no human POV
characters, our only eyes into the story are alien ones, and Lawrence does this
so well I felt like I was a wrinkled, hairless historian with a prehensile
snout and oversized ears.

I say "aliens," but that term will get quibbled over. Barsk is a wet, cloudy
world settled by the Fant, creatures who, as the full title of the story
suggests, bear a non-coincidental resemblance to Earth's elephants. The setting
is, technically, an anthropomorphic one, but saying "oh, it's an anthro story"
does the book an enormous disservice. Barsk is to anthropomorphic, "furry"
fiction as Heinlein's Starship Troopers is to Lucas's stormtroopers.

[BarskFeatu]

The story is part detective story, part adventure, and part "idea" story whose
central conceits do a delightful job of blurring that line between sufficiently
advanced technology and magic. It hits familiar notes in ways that tell me
"this is like other books I love," and then delivers new notes in ways that
remind me why I like reading stuff that is actually new.

I've raved over Lawrence's "Amazing Conroy" stories before. As delightful as
those were, Barsk: The Elephant's Graveyard is better, and for all the right
reasons.    

(originally posted at howardtayler.com)

 

Saturday December 26, 2015

Star Wars: The Force Awakens

It's been a week. If you haven't seen Star Wars: The Force Awakens yet, I
completely understand. Theaters have been packed. This review may spoil some
things, however, so by all means click away from this page now.

Still reading? [StarWarsTh]

Still?

Okay, then. Before I tell you how awesome it was, let me get something out of
the way. Star Wars: The Force Awakens does NOT take my top spot for 2015. The
Martian set a very high bar.

Look at it this way: Star Wars: The Force Awakens was amazing, and restored my
faith in the cinematic tradition and my hopes for the franchise. The Martian,
however, gave me hope for humanity. The Martian penetrated all the way to my
soul and changed me a little. Star Wars: The Force Awakens simply made me very,
very happy to have seen a movie.

Don't get me wrong, however. Star Wars: The Force Awakens was an amazing and
powerful film. The Star Wars prequels made so many terrible mistakes that
they ruined the franchise for me. That I again have interest in, and hope for
the Star Wars franchise is close to miraculous.

An examination of the craft of film making is in order here, but I need to see
the film a few more times to cement my thoughts. For now, I'll summarize.
Everything the filmmakers did wrong with Episodes I, II, and III were done
right (or simply not done) in Episode VII. More amazingly, almost everything
that was done well in Episodes IV, V, and VI was done better in Episode VII.

And I mean "better."

Not "bigger" or "louder" or "more." BETTER. 

  • The emotional highs and lows? Better.
  • Connection with the characters? Better.
  • Special effects? Better.
  • Practical effects? Better.
  • Comprehensibility of action? Better.
  • The cantina music? Beeeyeah no. I like the original better. But give me
    time.

That said, Star Wars: The Force Awakens suffers from a story structure problem,
likely  the result of a decision to move away from the Campbellian Monomyth, or
at least obscure the Hero's Journey a bit. On the upside, it makes the film
less predictable. On the downside by stepping outside the syntax of Western
cinema, the audience may end up confused. There are several places that feel
weird, moments about which my inner writer is complaining. I don't think those
problems are accidents are oversights. I think the writers are experimenting,
or perhaps playing the long game. I'll reserve judgement for now.

The film's biggest weakness, to my mind, is that Star Wars: The Force Awakens
cannot escape the legacy of the films that came before it. In 1977 Star Wars
changed the face of science fiction forever. That level of surprise at what a
film can be is impossible to deliver again. In 1999 Lucasfilm tried to incite a
similar revolution in the industry, and they gave us some of the most reviled
blockbuster movies of all time. Like it or not, that's also part of the legacy
behind Star Wars: The Force Awakens. 

In short, we remember having been amazed, and having been betrayed by this
franchise. We cannot help but compare Star Wars: The Force Awakens to six other
films.

Me, I think it stands up really well.  

(originally posted at howardtayler.com)

 
↓ Previous Posts
[schlock20160112]
‹ DEC | FEB ›
January 2016
S M T W T F S 272829303112345678910111213
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
1
2
3
4
5
6
First Comic Previous Comic
Next Comic
Latest Comic
Teraport to a random comic. Explore the comic archive.
powered by google

Search...

[                    ] [Search]
Howard's Tweets

Tweets by @howardtayler
RSS Feed All Content Copyright (C)2000-2016 Tayler Corporation — “Plotting to
take over the world since 1998.” All Rights Reserved.
Website powered by Sequential Grid | Site Design: MindFaucet | Privacy Policy
