Life-Study Fellowship
 

  •  

  • Home
  • More on LSF
  • Prayer Help
  • Contribute to LSF
  • FAITH Magazine
  • With God Book
  • Members Page
  • Contact Us

[Start Typing...     ]
 

  • Home
  • More on LSF
  • Prayer Help
  • Contribute to LSF
  • FAITH Magazine
  • With God Book
  • Members Page
  • Contact Us
  • [                    ]

Money Problems?
Health Problems?
We Can Help!
 
 
 
1
 
1

 

LIFE-STUDY FELLOWSHIP’S DAILY BIBLE QUOTE

No Tips to Display

 

For 75 years, Life-Study Fellowship, publisher of FAITH Magazine, inspiring
Fellowship Prayers, and the best selling book “With God All Things Are Possible
” (more than one million copies sold), has helped people all around the world
find greater success, happiness and peace of mind.

[f1_16cover-192x300]

CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD FAITH MAGAZINE

So many wonderful letters have been sent to us over the years from thankful and
appreciative people whose lives have been changed for the better. That
appreciation encourages us to keep on with our work of inspirational
publishing… to promote greater personal good fortune and happiness… to help
make this a more harmonious and peaceful world.

The work of Life-Study Fellowship is supported by the generous voluntary
contributions of all those who receive and benefit from our inspirational
publications. There are no membership dues or fees. Life-Study Fellowship
Foundation, Inc. is a recognized 501(c)(3) charitable organization and
contributions are tax deductible as provided by law.

If you are experiencing personal problems of any kind, or would like to benefit
from the ongoing everyday support and guidance that Life-Study Fellowship
provides, we encourage you to CLICK HERE to visit our Prayer Help Page. All
communications with Life-Study Fellowship are held in the strictest confidence.

To learn more about Life-Study Fellowship CLICK HERE to go to the next page of
our Web Site.

 

    "It warms my heart to see a group step out in the way you have. Your
    material is easily understood and conveys a powerful message. I respect
    your organization and all it stands for, and with God’s help, it will
    prosper. Know that you have touched at least one. "

    − M.S. VA.

    "I must confess when I received your “Personal Analysis” form, I said to
    myself, “Oh God, more people needing money”. I kept the form for almost a
    month before I said to myself, “Why not?” When I received my “good fortune
    prayers” so quickly I was stunned to be truthful. I felt someone really
    read my form… I got a warm feeling as I read through all the material. It
    let me see I am now a part of something great and powerful. It made me feel
    I can write and tell of my joys as well as my problems. "

    − B.B. MI.

    "Jesus said “With God All things Are Possible”. I believe and have faith in
    God. Thank you for writing me. I have had mixed up feelings for a long time
    and I need to know how to pray. "

    − B.J.S. SC.

FacebookTwitterGoogle+Share

Receive Our Emails

Sign up to follow LSF

Life-Study Fellowship’s Daily Bible Quote

No Tips to Display

Popular Posts

  • Fellowship’s Three Daily Prayers For the Month
  • Strength For The Day: Little Prayers For Life’s Everyday Situations
  • Fellowship Is Here To Help You Lead A More Prayerful Life!
  • You Have A Friend In Jesus E-Booklet

LSF on Facebook

    Facebook

Feel Hopeless? Prayer Help Here

Contact Life-Study Fellowship

Contact us here or email us

LSF

  • Privacy Statement
  • FAQ
  • Home

Join our Mailing List

Don't miss a thing

(C) 2016 Life-Study Fellowship.

  •  

    
