Old Wire Road church of Christ

Worship with us in Fayetteville, AR, Sundays at 9:30am (Bible Classes), 10:30am
(Worship Assembly) and 5:00pm; Wednesdays at 7:00pm.

[                                                  ] []

Menu

  • Home
  • About Us
      □ What to Expect in Our Assembly
      □ Calendar
      □ News
  • Bible FAQ's
      □ Biblical Authority
      □ Genesis and Creation
      □ The Old Law
      □ Morality
      □ Eternity
      □ Do I Need to be Saved
      □ How Do I Become a Christian
  • Online Sermons
      □ All Sermons
      □ All Gospel Meetings
  • Bible Study via Skype
  • Bible Study by Mail
  • Contact Us
      □ Ask a Question
      □ Send a Message
  • Members
      □ Login
      □ Register

[default-ho]

Welcome to the Old Wire Road Church in Fayetteville, Arkansas

We'd love for you to join us for Bible Class and Worship. Bible Classes are
Sundays at 9:30 am & Wednesdays at 7:00pm. Worship services are Sundays at
10:30 am and 5:00pm

Learn more about us ›

January 2016

                 Sun                   Mon Tue         Wed          Thu Fri Sat
                                                                        1   2
3• Bible Classes (All Ages)
  Time: 09:30am - 10:30am• Sunday              6• Mid-Week Bible
Worship                                4   5   Classes              7   8   9
  Time: 10:30am - 11:45am• Sunday                Time: 07:00pm -
Evening Services                               08:00pm
  Time: 05:00pm - 06:00pm
10• Bible Classes (All Ages)
  Time: 09:30am - 10:30am• Sunday              13• Mid-Week Bible
Worship                                11  12  Classes              14  15  16
  Time: 10:30am - 11:45am• Sunday                Time: 07:00pm -
Evening Services                               08:00pm
  Time: 05:00pm - 06:00pm
17• Bible Classes (All Ages)
  Time: 09:30am - 10:30am• Sunday              20• Mid-Week Bible
Worship                                18  19  Classes              21  22  23
  Time: 10:30am - 11:45am• Sunday                Time: 07:00pm -
Evening Services                               08:00pm
  Time: 05:00pm - 06:00pm
24• Bible Classes (All Ages)
  Time: 09:30am - 10:30am• Sunday              27• Mid-Week Bible
Worship                                25  26  Classes              28  29  30
  Time: 10:30am - 11:45am• Sunday                Time: 07:00pm -
Evening Services                               08:00pm
  Time: 05:00pm - 06:00pm
31• Bible Classes (All Ages)
  Time: 09:30am - 10:30am• Sunday
Worship                                                                      
  Time: 10:30am - 11:45am• Sunday
Evening Services
  Time: 05:00pm - 06:00pm

 1. Mid-Week Bible Classes
    1/13/16 07:00pm
 2. Bible Classes (All Ages)
    1/17/16 09:30am
 3. Sunday Worship
    1/17/16 10:30am
 4. Sunday Evening Services
    1/17/16 05:00pm
 5. Mid-Week Bible Classes
    1/20/16 07:00pm
 6. Full Calendar

  • SUBSCRIBE TO OUR
    CALENDAR
  • SUBSCRIBE TO OUR
    PODCAST
  • SUBSCRIBE TO OUR
    NEWSFEED

  • News & Announcements
  • Bible Reading of the Day

A Moment with the Bible


Matthew 7:13-14

Look carefully at this text. You will notice a series of alternatives. In each
case the alternatives are choices between one of two. In the old game show,
Let’s Make a Deal, contestants could choose between what was behind door number
one, door number two, or door number three. Jesus does not give three
alternatives. There are only two. Notice in this text that there are two gates,
two ways, two destinies, and two groups of people – one group “few” and the
other group “many.” Between these two groups all of humanity is pictured. No
one is left out. Every person passes through one of two gates, travels one of
two ways, and will eventually arrive at one of two destinations.

 

Jesus’ command is to “enter” by the narrow gate, which implies that effort is
required. The fact that Jesus uses the word “narrow” implies that it is not
easily entered. The gate does not allow just anyone to come in. A person must
strip himself of sin and worldly entanglements in order to enter. A narrow gate
makes heaven more attractive because a wider gate would let in those who are
evil. But not only is the gate narrow, the way is difficult. The road to heaven
is not a big wide interstate allowing the traveler to use cruise control. The
road to heaven is challenging and filled with sacrifices.

 

We must be impressed with the end of each journey. One can take a wide gate and
a broad way, but the end is restrictive; the end is destruction. Take the easy
way, and the end will be hard. The contrast is that one can enter the narrow
gate and travel the difficult road, but the end is wide open; the end is
eternal life. The man who is only looking at the gate and the road without
seeing what is ahead, is a fool.

 

Finally, notice the words “few” and “many.” Mankind has an inexplicable
tendency of believing that the majority is right. Sometimes they are. But in
spiritual matters the majority is wrong. Most do not want to take the more
difficult path. Most do not want to strictly follow the Bible or deny
themselves the pleasures of sin. Most will not be saved. Only the few will
“find it.”

A Moment with the Bible


Matthew 7:7-12

Let’s begin with the question, “How does this text fit in within the context of
the sermon, specifically in this location of the sermon?” The answer is that
Jesus has just warned against disciples being critical toward one another. The
Lord is the opposite. God is a liberal giver who does to others as He would
have them do to Him. God is a caring God. He gives to those who ask, He makes
it so those who seek will find, and He opens to those who knock. A critical
speck-finder will do none of these things. Notice that verse 12 begins with
“therefore.” The “golden rule,” as it is called, is the conclusion of verses
1-11. The conclusion is based on the character of God. Since God is wonderful
to give when we ask and open when we knock, we should be the same to our fellow
man. To do otherwise is not to be God-like.

 

Notice, “ask,” “seek,” and “knock.” These are present tense verbs that mean,
“Ask, and keep asking, seek, and keep seeking, knock, and keep knocking.” Each
command grows in intensity. “Ask,” implies recognition of our dependence.
“Seek,” indicates an urgency and desire to obtain. “Knock,” shows a diligent
effort to enter where blessings can be found. Only God is able to give these
“good gifts” and we should be trying to obtain them.

 

However, the implication is that most disciples do not seek God’s good gifts as
they should. Why not? Because they lack the confidence that God will give. How
foolish! What father would do any less? Even earthly fathers do not give evil
things to their children who ask for that which is good. Would not our heavenly
Father do far more than an earthly father? Consider also, if we ask for good
things, our Father will give us good things. But if we ask for that which would
not be good for us, will not our Father still give us that which is good? That
is the blessing of having a perfect heavenly Father.

A Moment with the Bible


Matthew 7:1-6

This text is one of the most misused in the Bible. It is said that Jesus is
forbidding His disciples from ever correcting a person who is in error or who
has a sin in his life. If this interpretation is true, then Jesus repeatedly
violated His own rule and the apostles were equally bad offenders. Even in this
text (vs. 5), Jesus commanded that we remove a speck from a brother’s eye once
the log has been removed from our own eye. In verse 6, Jesus warned against
giving that which is holy to dogs or pearls to swine. In order to obey that
command, we must judge as to whether a person falls into the category of a hog
or a dog. In John 7:24, Jesus commanded His disciples to “judge righteous
judgment” but not to “judge according to appearance.”

 

What then is the meaning of Jesus’ words? Jesus is warning against harsh,
nitpicking, speck-finding judgment. Imagine the lack of care that would be
taken by a person trying to remove a speck while a log was in his own eye.
Those who are always trying to examine every detail of another person’s life
are not spending adequate time looking into their own lives. Only the person
who is acutely aware of his own shortcomings and who diligently works to
correct his sins, is qualified to help a brother with his faults. Thus, Jesus
is warning against hypocritical judgment. Some pick on the tiniest flaw in
another, but disregard major issues in themselves. Such judgmental people will
end up getting the same kind of treatment in return, both in this life and the
one to come.

 

But who might be a “hog” and a “dog?” These are people who show no regard for
that which is holy and good. We cannot determine this until we have actually
presented the gospel to a person. When their reaction is to despise what has
been offered, go to others and leave these alone. Further efforts with people
like this will only end violence and trouble.

A Moment with the Bible


Matthew 6:25-34

But if I do not “lay up” for myself treasure on earth, how will I eat? After
warning His disciples of spending their energy building treasure on this earth,
Jesus now helps with the natural tendency to be anxious about whether we will
have enough to live. Jesus offers a number of arguments against anxiousness:

 1. Life is about more than just physical necessities. This does not mean that
    a person ought to foolishly disregard the responsibility of laboring in
    order to provide for himself and his family. Jesus is simply admonishing us
    that these needs are not worth worry.
 2. God takes care of birds who do not “store up” anything. Since humans are of
    greater value than birds, there is no reason to worry.
 3. Worry cannot change anything in our lives for the better. Worry is wasted
    energy.
 4. God clothes plants and flowers with greater beauty than even Solomon. If He
    clothes such temporary things, He will also clothe us.
 5. The Gentiles (those without a spiritual Father in heaven) worry about all
    these things. Why would a child of God, a person who has as his Father the
    Creator of the universe, worry about physical needs? That makes no sense. A
    good father would never allow his children to go without their necessities.
 6. Seek the kingdom of God first and seek righteous living first, and the Lord
    will give us the things we need. Do we think that He would break that
    promise? The problem with those who worry about the physical is that they
    will readily put their career or work first when there is a choice between
    spiritual obligations and physical needs or wants. They do not trust the
    Lord’s promise.
 7. What good does it do to worry about tomorrow? We cannot do anything
    tomorrow. We can only do what we can do today and let tomorrow take care of
    itself. Most of what man worries about has to do with things that have not
    yet happened and possibly will never happen.

When the truth is known, it is not so much that we worry about needs as it is
that we are concerned we will not get what we want. We are then serving wealth,
not God.

A Moment with the Bible


Matthew 6:21-24

“For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.” That statement
makes it easy to evaluate our lives before the Lord. All we need to do is ask
ourselves where our true treasure is. Is our real treasure found in what we
possess, or is our treasure the relationship we have with the Lord and our
ultimate life with Him? The word “for” explains why it is important to lay up
treasure in heaven on not on the earth. Wherever we put our greatest efforts is
where our treasure will be and thus where our heart will be.

 

Most do not take seriously what Jesus says about riches. However, our view of
possessions and where we put our treasure determines whether our lives are full
of light or full of darkness. The individual who puts his emphasis on amassing
wealth is blinded to the real purpose and meaning in life. He thinks he sees
but he is actually deluded. He thinks he is preparing for the future but he is
only heaping up treasure for the day of doom. 

Religious people tend to live as if Jesus is wrong when He says a man cannot
serve two masters. For many serving two masters is as simple as attending
worship on Sundays and then doing everything possible to build wealth the rest
of the time. These conclude that since they are not missing worship, they are
serving God. But attending worship is not the question. The question is where
is your passion? What is your treasure? Where is your devotion? The reason a
person cannot serve both God and wealth is because God expects complete
devotion and passion to Him. But when a person desires to be rich in earthly
goods, such a pursuit requires an equally passionate lifestyle in those things
that are physical. There is not time or energy to pursue the physical and at
the same time devote ourselves to God in a way that is pleasing to Him.

Previous News

Tuesday January 12 2016


  • Old Testament: Gen 24
  • Psalm: Ps 12
  • New Testament: Matt 14

Old Testament: Gen 24 Gen 24

(Daily Reading, ESV)

Recent Sermons

 1. PlayThe End Of Christ's Life
    Steve Roberts
 2. PlayBe Holy as I am Holy
    Lucas Griggs
 3. PlayHave You Been Saved?
    Tommy Morris

[FallMeetin]

Home | About Us | Bible FAQ's | Online Sermons | Bible Study via Skype | Bible
Study by Mail | Contact Us | Members

[powered-by]

Old Wire Road church of Christ
www.oldwireroadchurch.com
2480 Old Wire Road
Fayetteville, AR USA 72703
(479) 442-7486

