bg image(/defaultUser/images/backgrounds/Sophisticated_Sidebar.gif)
[javascript_disabled]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
[s] [tp]                                                                [s]
    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
[HitCount]
[logo-1005873764]
Welcome to Bladon Methodist Church! Bladon is a small village located about 10
miles north of Oxford, near the town of Woodstock and Blenheim Palace. The
Methodist Church is located in a prominent position in the centre of the
village.
There is an all-age service at Bladon Methodist Church every Sunday mornings at
11 o'clock. The services are fairly short, typically around 20 to 30 minutes
long and are either lead by our Minister, Rev Jonathan Todd, or a local
Methodist lay preacher or occasionally one of our own youth leaders. Whoever is
leading the service you can be guaranteed it will be fun and entertaining for
both children and adults! For more details on our weekly services please see
our services page.
After the service the  Junior Church retire to the schoolroom to continue their
activities. There is a large and active Junior Church at Bladon with typically
30 to 40 children and young adults attending each week. You can read all about
their activities on their own website which can be accessed via our kids
section.
Methodist church 1900 & 2000
The Methodist Church in January 2005 - put your cursor over the picture to see
        a similiar viewpoint of the church at the turn of the centuary
               Click here to see another picture of the church.
       The church interior today - a picture of the front of the church
 Click here to see a view from the balcony and here to see the church in 1977
since Feb 2002
We hope you'll enjoy browsing around our website. For information about church
and circuit events then please see the notices and diary pages. If you've got a
bit more time then you may find the history section an interesting read. It
includes several archive articles and photographs dating back to the 19th
century.
top of page
If you have any comments or would like to know more about the church, our
events and activities and our redevelopment project then please  e-mail us!
We'd love to hear from you!
[guestbook]
[Sophisticated_Top]
home
services
diary
project
kids
history
contacts
links
To help with the running costs of the churchwe have strong network of Friends. 
You can read more about The Friends of Bladon Methodist Church and how you can
join the scheme and support the work of our church here.
[Church_interior_1_lowres]
The church is fully equipped with a data projector, stage lighting and a sound
system which are used on a regular basis for services, concerts and theatrical
productions.
We are currently in the final stages of planning a project to redevelop and
refurbish our church premises to bring them into the 21st century and create
more space for church and community activities. We expect to start building
work in the spring of 2016. You can read more about this exciting project on
this page. 
*
