Historicism.com

Explore the classic Protestant interpretation of Bible prophecy.

                              [tn_horizonbanner]

  • Home
  • Bookshelf
  • Blogs
      □ Historicism.com Blog
      □ Keruxai.com
  • Tour
      □ What is Futurism? What is Historicism?
      □ Interpreting the Evidence
      □ Legacy
      □ Bookshelf
      □ Recommended Links
      □ H.G. Guinness: Flame of Fire
      □ Guinness Titles
      □ Bookstore
  • About Us
      □ Beliefs
      □ Contact Us
  • Resources
      □ Online Bible
      □ Search Bible
      □ Armageddon Watch
      □ Guinness Archives
      □ Time Charts
      □ Animations

  Check out these recommended books from our Amazon.com affiliate bookstore:

Bookstore categories include Historicism/Prophecy, Science & the Bible, Bibles,
                                    & more!
         If book suggestions don't load, try refreshing your browser.

Welcome to Historicism.com!

This website is all about Bible prophecy. Most people who read that sentence
will have one of three reactions:

  • You go back to Facebook or whatever you were doing because you believe
    everything will "pan out in the end."
  • You leave without reading anything because you are pretty sure that
    websites like this are for people who believe in aliens and flying saucers.
  • You get excited about contacting us to share your unique insights about the
    end of the world since nobody else will listen to you. (In which case,
    please don't bother. We're not interested either.)

But if you do take the time to see how this site can help you with your study
of the prophecies in the Bible, I would like to make this prediction: You will
be glad you did.

Speaking of making predictions, you might like to know that, since this website
began in 1999, I have never had to retract any prediction from the pages of
this website. There has been no need to retract predictions because I have
never made any predictions! This way of interpreting Bible prophecy, called
"Historicism", is not about guessing the future. It's about comparing history
to the prophecies in the Bible. Historicism is an approach to interpreting
biblical prophecy that has been around for over 500 years. At times Historicism
has been very popular among Protestant interpreters; at other times, not so
much. But my point is, having been around for such a long time, with dozens of
major scholars having written historicist commentaries and books, the basic
features of this interpretation haven't changed all that much over the past few
centuries. That kind of consistency isn't very exciting to conspiracy theorists
and prophecy-nuts. But if you're seriously interested in the Bible, in the
prophecies it contains, and how those prophecies have been understood by many
of Christianity's best scholars over hundreds of years, you've come to the
right place. Don't, however, expect to figure it all out in a few hours. Many
of the Bible's great treasures are only discovered with prayer, time and hard
work.

In 2005, after having grown up attending a good, Baptist church every Sunday as
a kid; having faithfully attended church every week as an adult, and having
completed 3 years of seminary, a startling thing happened to me. I finally
understood what the Gospel of Jesus Christ had to do with how I live my life.
(This epiphany took place while listening to a podcast series on the book of
Romans by the Whitehorse Inn.) Sometimes insights into biblical truth don't
come quickly or easily. That's just as true with prophecy as it is with the
Gospel. Sometimes understanding only comes after a lot of time in prayer and a
lot of time invested in patient study of the Scriptures.

That's why Historicism.com exists. To help people like you make progress and
gain insight as you study the prophecies in God's Word. So that your faith in
Jesus Christ will grow stronger, and so that what you learn will make a
positive difference to how you live your life as a Christian. (If you're not a
Christian yet, and you take the time to read through this website, you might
just have your mind blown.) Jesus once said, "From now on I am telling you
before it comes to pass, so that when it does occur, you may believe that I am
He" (John 13:9). And again, in John 14:29, He said, "Now I have told you before
it happens, so that when it happens, you may believe." I believe prophecy in
the Bible is meant to be read, studied, and then compared to events that happen
later to see if the things predicted have happened yet. God intended that our
faith in Christ would grow, in part as we see learn about prophecy being
fulfilled. I agree with Dr. Robertson McQuilken who wrote,

"...There are two purposes for predictive prophecy. The chief purpose is to
affect the conduct of those who hear the prophecy. Another purpose is met only
when the prophecy is fulfilled. That purpose is to build faith, to establish
confidence in the God who miraculously foretold events (John 13:19; 14:29;
16:4)." [J.Robertson McQuilken, Understanding and Applying the Bible, Moody
Press: Chicago, 1983. p215.]

HOW TO GET THE MOST OUT OF THIS SITE:

Historicism.com was designed around a series of pages called our "Tour", giving
visitors an introduction to the Historicist understanding of Bible prophecy. At
the bottom of each page of the Tour you will see a menu labelled "Take the
Tour". When you are ready to begin, click the first item in the menu and work
your way through the Tour at your own pace. The 5th page in the Tour is the
central hub of the whole Historicism.com website: The Bookshelf. On that page
you will find a collection of books, essays, articles and more related to the
Historicist interpretation of Bible prophecy.

We highly recommend these two books available from Amazon:
The Genius of Guinness, the story of the famous Guinness family, and in
particular of the 19th century Revival preacher, missionary and writer, Dr.
Henry Grattan Guinness.
And the Final Prophecy of Jesus, by the late Dr. Oral Collins. An outstanding
commentary on the book of Revelation.

WORRIED ABOUT THE END OF THE WORLD?

Is Israel on a path to Armageddon? Read a short article by Joe Haynes titled,
"Armageddon...In the Last Days, the Nations Turn Against Israel," study the
relevant passages of Scripture, and decide for yourself: CLICK HERE TO GET
STARTED!

Check out this Historicism.com Feature Section: Matthew 24 and the Prophecies
of Jesus

Or choose from the menus below to jump directly to selections from our
Booksshelf on the following subjects...

Learn about Antichrist: ---- [Choose from this list              ]

Learn about the Tribulation: [Choose from this list                         ]

Learn about the Rapture: -- [Choose from this list                         ]


                                    [Next]

Take the Tour

  • Site Tour
  • What Is Historicism?
  • What Prophecy Has Been Fulfilled?
  • Who Has Held This View?
  • Where Can I Learn More About This?
  • Other Recommended Resources
  • Who Was H. Grattan Guinness?
  • What Books Did Guinness Write?
  • Store

Join our FaceBook group!
[fb]


About Me

Historicism.com is owned and operated by me, Joe Haynes, of Victoria, British
Columbia, Canada. I serve as a pastor in a church plant in Victoria since 2013.
My wife, Heather, and I have five kids. In 2011, I completed a Master of Arts
in Christian Studies from Northwest Baptist Seminary at the Associated Canadian
Theological Seminaries of Trinity Western University. Feel free to visit my
blog at Keruxai.com.
If you would like to make a donation, for which we would be most grateful,
please use the button below or click here. We are unable to issue tax-receipts
for funds received.


  • Home
  • Bookshelf
  • Blog
  • Beliefs
  • Contact
  • Guinness Archive
  • Charts
  • News

All material on Historicism.com and Keruxai.com unless otherwise stated are
Copyright, J.L. Haynes, 1999.

