Christian Churches of God   Abrahams Legacy, sceptre and birthright   Christian Churches of God
                                           promises.



                                  Truth stranger than fiction


                   Hebrews 2:16 For surely it is not with angels that he is
                        concerned but with the descendants of Abraham.

          The identification of the descendants of Abraham is an important factor in
          understanding bible prophecy. The truth is that there are a great number of
        nations that are descended from Abraham and heir to the promises made by God to
           Abraham. However, not only those promises to Abraham but also the earlier
                  Birthright promises and blessings made by Noah to his sons.

                The Tribal origin of these nations and also the identity of the
         English-Speaking people presents us with the necessary keys to unlocking both
         history and Biblical Prophecy. These keys provides us with the reason for the
        remarkable present privileges of the sons of Abraham and foretell the upcoming
          destruction of both America & Great Britain and the re-organisation of the
                                         world order.

          Many people will be surprised to discover their true ethnic origins and the
        fact that ultimately all nations will be involved within the greater family of
                                           Abraham.

          For this understanding we have to look at the Genetic Origin of the Nations
          . From there we can see how the nations are spread out over the world. The
          intermingling of the nations is not simply one of YDNA and mtDNA intermix.
           People are not aware for example that those of British and West European/
        Scandinavian descent are not only R1b and R1a sons of Japheth but they are also
        a large proportion of Haplogroup (Hg.) I Semites. Thus God enlarged Japheth and
            he was to dwell in the tents of Shem to fulfil his birthright promise.

         Also the largest number of Jews now living are resident in the United States
          and British Commonwealth. The majority of these people are actually either
        Japhethites or Hamites converted to Judaism over the ages. All of the Hg. I and
          J sub groups came from the original Hebrew genetic structure which was the
         foundation of both the I and J Semites. This is now called the IJ supergroup.
        To that supergroup are added other Semites and the sons of Ham and the Sons of
         Japheth in both the United States and the British Commonwealth of Nations to
                                       fulfil prophecy.

        CCG first demonstrated this Hg. IJ link historically and identified the nations
        in the first edition of the paper Genetic Origin of the Nations (No. 265) (see
             History of the Nations and the genetics and genealogies on that link
        below). This IJ link was later confirmed by the scientists at S2 and S22 of the
        YDNA structure. To avoid the consequences of this discovery, the Evolutionists
        called Hg. I "Proto-Semitic" and placed it back 30,000 years. Nothing could be
        further from the truth.  The mix of Hebrews and Japhethites in the Isles began
         in Ireland some three thousand odd years ago with the arrival of the Semitic
           I1a (Isles)Tuatha De Danaan or Tribe of the Danites and spread to Britain
        where the majority of that group are now found. The intermix has continued ever
         since.The interweaving of YDNA and mtDNA is occurring all over the world but
        that is not the way God is operating through Christ to bring the greatest union
                                            about.

          The union is more importantly a spiritual union. The entire world is being
         called into the body of Israel which Christ made into his body as part of the
        sons of Abraham and the extension of the Temple of God. Thus we must not simply
                   think on a physical level but also on a spiritual level.

        God is accomplishing this union but he will also deal with these key or marker
         elements of the Sons of Abraham as nations to bring them to repentance first.
                                  Scripture cannot be broken.

         "And Joseph saw that he was putting his right hand on the head of Ephraim and
         it was evil in his sight; and he took hold of his father’s hand to move it to
          turn it from Ephraim’s head to the head of Manasseh. And Joseph said to his
        father: Not so my father! For this one is the firstborn. Put your right hand on
        his head. And his father refused and said:  I know my son I know. He also shall
        be a people and he shall become great. But his younger brother shall be greater
        than he, and his seed shall become the fullness of the nations (Gentiles)" (Gen
                        48:17-19 Green’s Interlinear cf. also Rom. 11).

        This prophecy placed the fullness or conversion of the Gentiles in the seed of
         Ephraim. The sons of Japheth would interbreed with them first and become the
        greater part of them. Then the Commonwealth that they established would become
         the basis for the conversion of all nations to Jesus Christ in the Last Days
        and their admission to the nation of Israel under God and Christ as a cohesive
                                             body.

            A warning regarding Christian Militia and Christian Identity movements.

               Find out more about the purpose of the Abraham's Legacy website.

         For more information on the spread of religion and the descendants of Abraham
                                     see our sister sites

        The history of nationsSee how we are    History of religion Follow the history
        all descended from Adam. By using       of religion from Adam through the
        modern DNA techniques it can be shown   Temple System and Sun Cults to Islam,
        that all nations and the people are     Judaism and modern Churches
        descendants of Adam.

                                         Top of page.
                                              Top

                      Home | FAQs | Epilogue | Contact | Links | Sitemap

                           (C) 1996 - 2009 Christian Churches of God

Quantcast
