 

                          Header for page

Creation and
Evolution

Updated:6/15/15

                          | ASA Statements | Biblical/Theological Papers |
                          | Evolution Basics |
          Home            Historical Papers | | News | Polls | Resources | Scientific Papers |
                           | Spectrum of Views | On-line Science Journals | Youth Resources |
         Topics
                           
 About Science & Faith
                                 
      Apologetics
                          No topic in the world of 'science and Christianity' has fostered the intensity
     Archaeology &        of discussion and disharmony with evangelicals as the source of biological
      Anthropology        diversity. The pages of Perspectives  on Science and Christian Faith (PSCF)
                          reflect the tensions for a community which claims to  value both the Bible and
  Astronomy &Cosmology    science yet finds it difficult to forge a view on origins that takes in to
                          account both areas of revelation. Various  faith-science blogs debate the
    Bible & Science       details and new discoveries with great gusto.

       Creation&           
       Evolution
                                     St Augustine offers this advice:
       Education
                              "...In matters that are so obscure and far beyond our vision, we find in
      Environment             Holy Scripture passages which can be interpreted in very different ways
                              without prejudice to the faith we have received. In such cases, we should
         Ethics               not rush in headlong and so firmly take our stand on one side that, if
                              further progress in the search of truth justly undermines this position, we
   Historical Studies         too fall with it. That would be to battle not for the teaching of Holy
                              Scripture but for our own, wishing its teaching to conform to ours, whereas
      Mathematics             we ought to wish ours to conform to that of Sacred Scripture."

     Origin of Life
                          A June 2011 Christianity Today article "The Search for the Historical Adam" and
       Philosophy         a later web site editorial "No Adam, No Eve, No Gospel" drew much interest
                          from  evangelical publications, web pages, and bloggers of many persuasions. 
    Physical Science      It described recent advances in genetics that suggested the need for
                          reconsideration of the traditional Christian understanding of Adam and Eve. In
      Psychology &        short, well established genetic studies have concluded that humanity could not
      Neuroscience        have begun with an initial human pair uniquely given souls by God; rather the
                          complexity of the human genome required an original population of ~1,000.
       Science &
  Technology Ministry      

  Teaching & Research     While anti-evolution advocates sought to pick holes in the scientific picture,
                          biblical scholars have sought to develop interpretations that join an
       Worldview          evolutionary process with the biblical text. C. John Collins (Did Adam and Eve
                          Really Exist? Crossway 2011) finds a contemporary population while Peter Enns,
 Whole-Person Education   The Evolution of Adam, What the Bible Does and Doesn't Say about Human Origins,
                          Brazos Press (2012) sees Genesis as not directed to primarily provide objective
       Youth Page         historical and scientific information but to offer a statement of the story of
                          nation of Israel within the context of Near East history.
      Publications
                           
       JASA/PSCF
                          Others treat the biblical text in a different way. However most feel the
        Articles          Augustinian picture to be persuasive. There is certainly much more at stake
      Book Reviews        here than with earlier science-faith impasses in medicine or astronomy.  

        ASA/CSCA
       Newsletter         It is important that the reader review the basic themes of the topics "About
                          Science and Faith" and "The Bible and Science."  These sections will prepare
         Issues           you for the challenges of Ancient Near East literature, the enduring
                          misunderstandings produced by erroneous readings of the Hebrew text, claims
[Recommended Current      that the Bible anticipates aspects of modern science, translations biased by
Books]                    the influence of ancient philosophy, the claims of modern statements on the
                          inspiration and inerrancy of the Bible, controversies over literal vs. symbolic
     _____________        readings of early Genesis, and much more..

 "The Biblical doctrine   All of this is taking place in an active scientific environment concerned with
 of creation is one of    related topics.
 the richest doctrines
 revealed to us by God.
                          _________________________________
 It reveals to us that
the God who loves us is   A Recent News Item:   "A 4.4 million-year-old skeleton nicknamed “Ardi” by
also the God who created  scientists who
 us and all things; at    found her remains in Ethiopia show this earliest known ancestor of humans was a
once it establishes the   lot more like us than chimps or apes-"-
relationship between the  Bloomberg.                                                       
 God of religious faith
and the God of physical    
        reality.

    It is because of      Our page points to PSCF and other sources that focus on the religious
 creation that we trust   significance of the
  in the reality of a     creation/evolution issue and concerns over the evidence that supports
   physical and moral     evolution. The ASA has no official position on evolution; its members hold a
    structure to the      diversity of views with varying degrees of intensity.
 universe, which we can
 explore as scientists    Advocates and foes of evolution alike have often gone far beyond the science of
   and experience as      the subject to advance various causes. Despite the cries of those who claim a
        persons.          corner on the Truth, the importance of "beliefs" and "feelings" on all sides
                          reduces the chances for consensus. Too often, would-be authors are not familiar
    It is because of      with current research. Scientists, philosophers and theologians are rightly
 creation that we know    concerned with those who would speak learnedly about fields with which they
 that the universe and    have only a surface knowledge.
everything in it depends
 moment-by-moment upon     
the sustaining power and
    activity of God.      Today's spirited discussion often pits Christian vs. Christian and scientist
                          vs. scientist when it comes to points of interpretation. Public debates over
    It is because of      education and the "culture wars" keep the pot boiling. We offer creditable
 creation that we know    resources from which the reader can draw his/her own position.
  that we are not the
    end-products of       Try these two articles:
meaningless processes in
an impersonal universe,
 but men and women made   Harry L. Poe, "The English Bible and the Days of Creation: When Tradition
   in the image of a      Conflicts with Text,"   PSCF 66, Sept. 2014: (130-139) PDF  and
 personal God. It is by
   the formulation of     David L. Wilcox, "Genetic Insights for Human Origins in Africa and for Later
    "creation out of      Neanderthal Contact." PSCS 66, Sept. 2014: (140-153). PDF
nothing" that we affirm
  that God created the
  universe freely and     Recent polls that indicate the mood of the American public:
 separately, and reject   
  the alternatives of     Public’s Views on Human Evolution
 dualism and pantheism.
                          
   To worship God as      According to a new Pew Research Center analysis, six-in-ten Americans (60%) say
Creator is to emphasize   that “humans and other living things have evolved over time,” while a third
 both His transcendence   (33%) reject the idea of evolution, saying that “humans and other living things
 over the natural order   have existed in their present form since the beginning of time.”
and His imminence in the  .
natural order; it is to
recognize that His mode   In U.S., 46% Hold Creationist View of Human Origins: Highly religious Americans
of existence as Creator   most likely to believe in creationism
is completely other than
our mode of existence as  PRINCETON, NJ -- Forty-six percent of Americans believe in the creationist view
        created.          that God created humans in their present form at one time within the last
                          10,000 years. The prevalence of this creationist view of the origin of humans
  To appreciate God as    is essentially unchanged from 30 years ago, when Gallup first asked the
Creator is to recognize   question. About a third of Americans believe that humans evolved, but with
that which He created as  God's guidance; 15% say humans evolved, but that God had no part in the
intrinsically good; the   process. more
rationale for scientific  
   investigation, the
 assurance of ultimate     
  personal meaning in
life, and the nature of   Joe E Martin, " Compatibility of Major U.S. Christian Denominations with
evil as an aberration on  Evolution,
a good creation are all
  intrinsic to such an     Evo Edu Outreach (2010) 3:420–431 (on-line)   ...."An informal survey of major
     appreciation.        Christian organizations and denominations in the United States, based mostly on
                          publicly available statements, indicates that in fact most Christians, as
We believe in creation.   represented by their governing bodies, view evolution as being compatible with
It is unthinkable for a   their faith. Although on a worldwide basis this is largely a result of the high
    Christian to do       number (estimated at 1.2 billion) of adherents to Catholicism, even in the 
      otherwise."         United States, where Protestants outnumber Catholics and where anti-evolution
                          sentiment runs high there is more acceptance than non-acceptance of evolution
   Richard Bube-1971      among Christians, based on statements from their organizing bodies or
                          spokespersons."
Darwin confided the
following to Harvard
botanist Asa Gray in a                                                 
letter of May 1860:       ************************************

"I had no intention to    Sixty+ years of ASA publications reflect the paths that English speaking
write atheistically….I    evangelicals have
can see no reason, why a  taken on biological origins.  What was essentially a 1950s concordistic -
man, or other animal,     literal approach between  the early chapters of Genesis and the science of the
may not have been         day has become a complex matrix of literary and concordistic treatments that
aboriginally produced by  take into account ancient Near East (ANE) cultures and recent advances in the
other laws; & that all    scientific understanding of nature.
these laws may have been
expressly designed by an
omniscient Creator, who   A Spectrum of Creation Views held by Evangelicals
foresaw every future
event & consequence. But   
the more I think the
more bewildered I         All Christians in the sciences affirm the central role of the Logos in creating
become."--                and maintaining the universe. In seeking to describe how the incredible
Charles Darwin to Asa     universe has come to be, a variety of views has emerged in the last two hundred
Gray- 1860                yeaVaticanPicrs as continuing biblical and scientific scholarship have enabled
                          deeper understanding of God's word and world. Challenges to the church via
I never knew the          cultural issues have had their effects on faith science thinking.
newspapers were so
profoundly interesting.   Today we see a range of views on natural history that have developed out of a
North America does not    'Christian' worldview. They vary according to the place of scripture and
do England justice; I     science in the telling of the story. The place of direct actions of God and
have not seen or heard    'so-called' secondary causes are  key features of each story. How one reads the
of a soul who is not      Bible, the role of theology, scientific details and theory, and the philosophy
with the North. Some      of science each color our thinking.
few, and I am one of
them, even wish to God,    
though at the loss of
millions of lives, that   The Evangelical Spectrum:
the North would proclaim
a crusade against                
slavery. In the
long-run, a million         • Young-earth special creation: God directly creates all things in six days.
horrid deaths would be        (with  some qualifications) and a 'literal' reading of Genesis 1- 3:
amply repaid in the           Creation Research Society, Answers in Genesis
cause of humanity. What
wonderful times we live   Apparent Old Creation: The universe is recent as recorded in the Bible but
in! Massachusetts seems   created to look old as found by scientific studies.  Al Mohler
to show noble
enthusiasm. Great God!
How I should like to see  Old-earth Creation - Ruin - Reconstruction: Christian Geology Ministry, Gaines
the greatest curse on     R. Johnson
earth—slavery—abolished!
                           
Charles Darwin to Asa
Gray June 5, 1861.        Old-earth progressive creation: God's direct role in creation as consisting of
                          separate
The case for Cosmic       creative acts spread out over several billion years of time. J. J. Davis, G.
Ancestry is not yet       Mills, Hugh Ross - Reasons to Believe
proven, of course. At
this point the best        
reason to notice it is
that the mainstream       Evolving Creation (Theistic Evolution): God's activity is typically progressive
Darwinian paradigm does   in time, and
not satisfactorily        potentially understandable in terms of cause-and-effect sequences of physical
account for sustained     or historical
evolutionary progress     events. K. Miller, Robert, J. Schneider, Denis R. Venema
and the origin of life
on Earth. We will          
mention some of the
flaws in the Darwinian    One Time Creation: God has created a universe which depends continually upon
account, but our primary  God, but
purpose is to present     which has been endowed with the ability to accomplish what God wants it to
Cosmic Ancestry as a      accomplish
viable, new scientific    without any "corrections" or "interventions." G. Murphy, H. VanTill
account of evolutionary
progress and the origin    
of life on Earth.
                           
      Brig Klyce 
                          We provide a series of papers and books that emphasize various aspects of
                          biological origins. They are arranged under the categories of  Historical,
                          Scientific, and Biblical/Theological papers.
    Bloggers Coment!
                           
Science False So Called
                          Then follows a friendly exchange in PSCF on evolutionary psychology. An earlier
 August  2010             dialogue Theistic Evolution offers  a shorter introduction. Younger surfers
The Theories of Natural   should check-out Fish Wars.
Selection and Evolution
are not science because   Many anti-evolution ministries parade the alleged and real deficiencies of
they cannot be tested.    evolutionary descriptions for the development of life - a half empty cup that
They fall into the        cannot be filled. An alternative approach sees - a cup half filled that needs
philosophical realm of    work - which seems more appropriate for an organization of
tautology. A tautology    scientist-Christians.
is a formula whose         ________________________________________________________
negation is
unsatisfiable. Karl       Evolution Basics
Popper (1902-1994) wrote
extensively about this
problem to the            Non-coding half of human genome unlocked with novel sequencing technique
irritation of
evolutionists. Although   Recent News:   Texas A&M University biology doctoral student John C. Aldrich
they disagreed with him,  (left), working with associate professor of biology Dr. Keith A. Maggert
they were never able to   (right), has developed an inexpensive, fluorescent-dye-based sequencing
negate his                technique to monitor DNA-related dyanmics in heterochromatin -- a game-changing
philosophically           discovery that lays the groundwork to study the non-coding half of the human
arguments. Karl Popper    genome.
famously stated           October 7, 2014
"Darwinism is not a
testable scientific
theory, but a             UF researchers include humans in most comprehensive tree of life to date
metaphysical research
program. One of his       Filed under on Thursday, February 7, 2013.
greatest critiques of
evolutionists is that     GAINESVILLE, Fla. — An international team of scientists including University of
they only looked for      Florida researchers has generated the most comprehensive tree of life to date
evidence to support       on placental mammals, which are those bearing live young, including bats,
their theory. True        rodents, whales and humans. Appearing Thursday in the journal Science, the
scientific method         study details how researchers used both genetic and physical traits to
searches for other        reconstruct the common ancestor of placental mammals, the creature that gave
evidence, forms other     rise to many mammals alive today. The data show that contrary to a commonly
hypotheses and seeks to   held theory, the group diversified after the extinction of dinosaurs 65 million
disprove the favored      years ago. The research may help scientists better understand how mammals
hypothesis. None of this  survived past climate change and how they may be impacted by future
is allowed in the field   environmental conditions.
of evolutionary studies.
Strangely, as critical     
as Popper was of
evolutionary science, he
remained committed to     Hominids Lived Millions of Years Ago, but How Can We Tell?
it.
                          A Biologos video which address the age question. 17 min. (2012)
It's "Only a Theory"
                           
Benjamin... The fact is,
evolution is a theory to   Thomas Wynn, " Into the mind of a Neanderthal" New Scientist 18 January 2012
explain numerous facts,
not a single fact to be   What would have made them laugh? Or cry? Did they love home more than we do?
tested in a laboratory.   Meet the real Neanderthals.  A NEANDERTHAL walks into a bar and says... well,
Christians often argue    not a lot, probably.  Certainly he or she could never have delivered a
that "evolution is only   full-blown joke of the type modern humans would recognize because a joke hinges
a theory, not a fact,"    on surprise juxtapositions of unexpected or impossible events. Cognitively, it
as if it's some nebulous  requires quite an advanced theory of mind to put oneself in the position of one
philosophy. When we say   or more of the actors in that joke - and enough working memory (the ability to
those things, we          actively hold information in your mind and use it in various ways). more...
completely embarrass
ourselves. Evolution is    
indeed "only a theory,"
BUT a theory is higher
than a fact, for a        29+ Evidences for Macroevolution: The Scientific Case for Common Descent 
theory explains all the   Douglas Theobald, Ph.D. Version 2.89 2012
facts. We don't say that
the theory of gravity is  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
"only a theory." The
theory of gravity will    Introduction:   Evolution, the overarching concept that unifies the biological
never grow up into a      sciences, in fact embraces a plurality of theories and hypotheses. In
fact. All the creation    evolutionary debates one is apt to hear evolution roughly parceled between the
scientists have to do is  terms "microevolution" and "macroevolution". Microevolution, or change beneath
produce one fact that     the species level, may be thought of as relatively small scale change in the
does not fit within the   functional and genetic constituencies of populations of organisms. That this
theory of evolution, and  occurs and has been observed is generally undisputed by critics of evolution.
the theory will be        What is vigorously challenged, however, is macroevolution. Macroevolution is
changed or undone. In     evolution on the "grand scale" resulting in the origin of higher taxa. In
fact, science is a very   evolutionary theory, macroevolution involves common ancestry, descent with
competitive field, and    modification, speciation, the genealogical relatedness of all life,
you only make a name for  transformation of species, and large scale functional and structural changes of
yourself by proving that  populations through time, all at or above the species level (Freeman and Herron
something someone said    2004; Futuyma 1998; Ridley 1993).from t.o archives.
before you is wrong.
Scientists would LOVE a    
verifiable test that can
be repeated in a          A Ladder to the Protein Moon
laboratory that would
fit outside the theory    JUNE 17TH, 2011 by Monica Slinkard
of evolution so a newer,
more comprehensive        DNA actionSince the announced completion of the human genome project in April
theory can take its       2003, the scientific community has been working to decipher the meaning of the
place. In fact, I         approximately 24,000 genes in the human genome. In case you don’t remember from
believe someday that      high school biology (or chemistry), genes are specific sets of DNA unique to
will come. Just as the    every single organism, and the code contained in a person’s DNA is part of what
theory of gravity was     makes them who they are, for better or for worse. But when it comes to
subsumed into the far     understanding the exact ways in which DNA differences define unique
more encompassing theory  characteristics of a person at the cellular level, in the way cells function
of relativity, so the     and malfunction, even the most learned academics agree that the science of
theory of evolution will  genomics has a very long wayto go.Dr. Liskin Swint-Kruse, an ASA member and a
continue to be expanded   professor of biochemistry at the University of Kansas Medical Center, has high
to give us a clearer      hopes. Really high. high—Liskin compares the quest for mastering genomics to
picture of the workings   the challenge of putting a man on the moon at the turn of the century
of nature.                (the last century). To an early 1900’s stargazer, the impossibility of walking
                          on the dark side of a glowing orb in space is a fitting comparison to the
But to call it a mere     distance scientists must travel before they unlock the subtleties of how DNA
philosophy that isn't     works.    Full Article
falsifiable is
misguided. All a           
creation scientist has
to do is head into        This PBS resource is a good startingpoint
laboratory with a
primitive form of         
bacteria and let these    See a detailed list of "Early Humans". We thank Ashley, a student at the Kent
bacteria reproduce for a  School for directing us to this site.
period of ten years. An
entire generation of      The Theological Dilemma of Evolution
bacteria live and die
within about a 24 hour    In this Biologos  series, Gordon J. Glover examines both sides to the evolution
period. Over a period of  controversy as it relates to the Bible. He asserts that whether evolution is
years, thousands of       true or false, it creates theological problems. Therefore, it is necessary for
generations pass, giving  pastors,  seminary professors, and theologians to seriously consider the facts
us a chance to observe    and facilitate honest discussion about the issues at hand.
evolution in a fast
forward mode. All          
creation scientists have
to do is conduct this     Discovering the tree of Life  Video (10 min.) Yale University Peabody Museum of
experiment and            Natural History
demonstrate that no
evolution has occurred.   *************************************************
But in fact, scientists
have already done this    PSCF Special Issue SEPTEMBER 2010
with upwards of 30,000
generations of bacteria   "Adam and Eve as Historical People, and Why It Matters," C. John Collins
reproduction and have     The best way to account for both the biblical presentation of human life and
seen repeatable and       our own experience in the world is to suppose that Adam and Eve were real
predictable evolutionary  persons, and the forebears of all other human beings. The biblical presentation
changes in the bacteria.  concerns not simply the story in Genesis and the biblical passages that refer
In fact, this happens     to it, but also the larger biblical storyline, which deals with God’s good
with viruses, which is    creation invaded by sin, for which God has a redemptive plan; Israel’s calling
why we have to have a     to be a light to the nations; and the church’s prospect of successfully
different flu shot each   bringing God’s light to the whole world. The biblical presentation further
year. We kill the         concerns the unique role and dignity of the human race, which is a matter of
viruses, but the mutated  daily experience for everyone: all people yearn for God and need him, depend on
generations live to       him to deal with  their sinfulness, and crave a wholesome community for their
evolve into a new         lives to flourish. 
strain. If you believe
evolution is a false
philosophy, don't get     "Genesis and the Genome: Genomics Evidence for Human-Ape Common Ancestry and
your flu shot.            Ancestral Hominid Population Sizes," Dennis R. Venema 

But here's where God       The relatively new and rapidly expanding field of comparative genomics
screams out his name.     provides a wealth of data useful for testing the hypothesis that humans and
Each time these bacteria  other forms of life share common ancestry. Numerous independent lines of
tests have been done,     genomics evidence strongly support the hypothesis that our species shares a
these bacteria evolve in  common ancestor with other primates. Additional lines of evidence also indicate
nearly the same way each  that our species  has maintained a population size of at least several thousand
time. What this           individuals since our speciation from the ancestors of other great apes. This
demonstrates is that      article will provide an overview of genomics evidence for common ancestry and
evolution is not          hominid population sizes, and briefly discuss the implications of these lines
"random," but directed.   of evidence for scientific concordist approaches to the Genesis narratives.
That shows intelligence
and purpose. Rewind the    
clock of time, refire
the big bang, and         Recent Genetic Science and Christian Theology on Human Origins: An “Aesthetic
eventually, you'd have    Supralapsarianism” John R. Schneider 
upright intelligent
creatures that are fully  Recent genomic science strongly supports the theory of common ancestry. To
self-aware and capable    classical  Protestants,  particularly, this theory seems incompatible with
of knowing and            Scripture, most especially with the “historical Fall,” which Protestants
worshiping God.           presume to be manifestly biblical and so have cemented it securely into their
Evolution may appear      confessions and theology as a whole. Nevertheless,  John Schneider proposes
random on a micro scale,  that it is important for traditional Protestants to consider alternatives to
but the broader picture   this essentially “Augustinian”  view. He invites readers to examine Eastern
reveals purpose and       thinking (mainly in Irenaeus of Lyon) together with a minority of Protestants
design. Unfortunately,    (such as
we Christians have        Karl Barth and supralapsarian Calvinists), for whom the Incarnation and
surrendered the           Atonement are the purpose of creation from the beginning.  Their understanding
territory known as        differs from the execution of divine “Plan B,” as implied by the Augustinian
science and have left     western version of an unintended “fall”  from utopian first conditions.
Dawkins and company to    Schneider appeals to a fresh reading of the book of Job in support of an
interpret the data to a   “aesthetic supralapsarianism,” which sustains Protestant virtues of biblical
new generation of future  authority, divine sovereignty, and grace, while opening avenues to
atheists. We will answer  compatibility with evolutionary science.
for that someday.         
                          "After Adam: Reading Genesis in an Age of Evolutionary Science," Daniel C.
                          Harlow

                          Recent research in molecular biology, primatology, sociobiology, and
                          phylogenetics indicates that the species Homo sapiens cannot be traced back to
                          a single pair of individuals, and that the earliest human beings did not come
                          on the scene in anything like paradisal physical or moral conditions. It is
                          therefore difficult to read Genesis 1–3 as a factual account of human origins.
                          In current Christian thinking about Adam and Eve, several scenarios are on
                          offer. The most compelling one regards Adam and Eve as strictly literary
                          figures—characters in a divinely inspired story about the imagined past that
                          intends to teach theological, not historical, truths about God, creation, and
                          humanity. Taking a nonconcordist approach, this article examines Adam and Eve
                           as symbolic literary figures from the perspective of mainstream biblical
                          scholarship, with attention both to the text of Genesis and ancient Near
                          Eastern parallels. Along the way, it explains why most interpreters do not find
                          the doctrines of the Fall and original sin in the text of Genesis 2–3, but only
                          in later Christian readings of it. This article also examines briefly Paul’s
                          appeal to Adam as a type of Christ. Although a historical Adam and Eve have
                          been very important in the Christian tradition, they are not central to
                          biblical theology as such. The doctrines of the Fall and original sin may be
                          reaffirmed without a historical Adam and Eve, but invite reformulation given
                          the overwhelming evidence for an evolving creation.

                          Nick Spencer and Denis Alexander, Rescuing Darwin: God and Evolution in Britain
                          Today 2009 (Theos) e-book 

                          Adrian Desmond and James Moore,   Darwin's Sacred Cause: How a Hatred of
                          Slavery Shaped Darwin's Views on Human Evolution, Hardcover,  Houghton,
                          Mifflin, Harcourt, 2009. "Arresting . . . confront[s] the touchy subject of
                          Darwin and race head on . . .

                          ADAM’S ANCESTORS: Race, Religion, and the Politics of Human Origins by David N.
                          Livingstone. Baltimore, MD: The Johns Hopkins University Press, 2008. 301
                          pages.
                           PSCF Review


                          T

                           


                           

                           

                           

                           

                          ASA Statements


                          Richard H. Bube, "We Believe in Creation," Journal of the American Scientific
                          Affiliation (PSCF), 23 (June 1971):121-122.


                          ASA Executive Council, "A Voice For Evolution as Science," PSCF, 44 (December
                          1992): 252.

                           

                          ASA Creation Commission Statement (August 2000)


                          Historical Papers

                           

                           Hiram Caton, Getting Our History Right: Six Errors about Darwin and His
                          Influence www.epijournal.net  5(1) 2007: 52-69.


                           

                          James Moore , Evolution and Wonder : Understanding Charles Darwin (July
                          20,2006) on Charles Darwin’s view of religion,Aging Darwin adaptation, and
                          creation. Audio interview

                          Edward  O. Dodson, Toldot Adam: A Little-Known Chapter in
                          the History  of Darwinism, PSCF 52.1: 47-54 (3/2000).

                          Sara Joan Miles, Charles Darwin and Asa Gray Discuss Teleology
                          and Design PSCF 53.3:196-201, 2001.

                          Michael Roberts, Was Darwin a Christian? PSCF 52.2:84-85 (6/2000).

                           

                          Lectures


                          Dennis Lamoureux, "Beyond the Evolution - Creation Debate" (2003)

                           

                          Scientific Papers


                          David Lathi, "Looking to the Birds: A Perspective on the Interpretation of
                          Nature,"
                          PSCF 55 (March  2003): 14-21

                           

                          John Bracht, Natural Selection as an Algorithm: Why Darwinian Processes Lack
                          the
                          Information Necessary to Evolve Complex Life PSCF 54.4:264-269 (12/2002)

                           

                          Glenn R. Morton, "Transitional Forms and the Evolution of Phyla," PSCF 53.1
                          (March 2001): 
                          42-51.

                          Ronald G. Larson, "Viral Evolution: Climbing Mount Molehill?" PSCF 52
                          (September 2000):
                          169.

                          Lahti, David, Evolutionary Theory Misunderstood PSCF 52.3:215-217 (9/2000).

                          Armin Held, & Peter Rust,"Genesis Reconsidered" PSCF 51.4:231-243 (12/1999).


                          Gordon C. Mills, "A Design Theory of Progressive Creation." A series of five
                          papers
                          from 1995 - 1999 describing Dr. Mills' views.

                          Peter Rust, "How Has Life and Diversity Been Produced?" PSCF 44 (June 1992):
                          80.


                          Junghyung, Kim, "Naturalistic versus Eschatological Theologies of Evolution,"
                          PSCF
                          63 (June 2011):95.


                          Snoke, David, Why Were Dangerous Animals Created? PSCF 56.2:117-125 (6/2004)


                          Fischer, Dick, Young-Earth Creationism: A Literal Mistake PSCF 55.4:222-231 (12
                          /2003)


                          Morton, Glenn R. & Simons, Gordon, Random Worms: Evidence of Random and
                          Nonrandom Processes in the Chromosomal Structure of Archaea, Bacteria and
                          Eukaryotes PSCF 55.3:175-184 (9/2003)


                          Richard Thornhill, "The Panda's Thumb: Design and Optimality from Plato to Endo
                          "
                          PSCF 55 (March3003): 32-35.


                          Newman, Robert C., Some Problems for Theistic Evolution PSCF 55.2:117-128
                          (6/2003).

                           
                          Merideth G. Kline, "Space and Time in the Genesis Cosmogony," PSCF 48 (March
                          1996): 2
                          

                          George L. Murphy, "Chiasmic Cosmology and Creation's Functional Integrity,
                          "PSCF 53
                          (March 2001):7 - 13.

                          Howard J. Van Till, . "Basil, Augustine, and the Doctrine of Creation's
                          Functional
                          Integrity." Science & Christian Belief 8, No. 1 (1996): 21-38.


                          Davis Young, "The Antiquity and the Unity of the Human Race Revisted,"
                          Christian
                          Scholar's Review XXIV:4,380-396 (May, 1995)


                          A Historical Note

                           

                          One of the first to carry out a controlled evolution experiment was the Rev.
                          William H. Dallinger, a minister in the English Wesleyan Methodist Church. A
                          talented and persistent amateur scientist, he was the first to study the
                          complete life cycle of unicellular organisms under the microscope and the
                          adaptation of such organisms to changes in temperature. He cultivated small
                          unicellular organisms in a custom-built incubator over a time period of seven
                          years (1880-1886). Dallinger slowly increased the temperature of the incubator
                          from an initial 60 °F up to 158 °F. The early cultures had shown clear signs of
                          distress at a temperature of 73 °F, and were certainly not capable of surviving
                          at 158 °F. The organisms Dallinger had in his incubator at the end of the
                          experiment, on the other hand, were viable at 158 °F. However, these organisms
                          would not grow anymore at the initial 60 °F. He concluded that this was was
                          clear evidence for Darwinian adaptation, and that the organisms had adapted to
                          live in a high-temperature environment. Unfortunately, Dallinger's incubator
                          was accidentally destroyed in 1886, and he was unable to continue this line of
                          research. His approach was followed by numerous workers in the early 20th
                          Century. --JWH
                          
                          Youth Resources


                          http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/evolution/humans/index.html  
                          http://www.peoplefinders.com/article-archaeological-finds-of-early-human s.aspx
                          >
                          http://anthro.palomar.edu/primate/prim_8.htmThe
                          http://www.actionbioscience.org/evolution/index.html
                          http://www.evotutor.org/


                          General Books

                          Bethany Sollereder,  "God and Evolution: A Review of Four Contemporary  Books,"
                          PSCF 61 (March 2009): 40-48.  


                          SAVING DARWIN: How to Be a Christian and Believe in Evolution by Karl W.
                          Giberson. New York: HarperOne, 2008. 248 pages, notes, index. Hardcover;
                          $24.95. I
                          SBN: 0061228788.


                          ONLY A THEORY: Evolution and the Battle for America’s Soul by Kenneth R.
                          Miller.
                          New York: Viking Adult, 2008. 244 pages, notes, index. Hardcover; $25.95. I
                          SBN: 067001883X.


                          THANK GOD FOR EVOLUTION: How the Marriage of Science and Religion Will
                          Transform Your Life and Our World by Michael Dowd. New York: Viking Adult,
                          2008. 413 pages,


                          EVOLUTIONARY CREATION: A Christian Approach to Evolution by Denis O. Lamoureux.
                           Eugene, OR: Wipf and Stock, 2008. 493 pages, appendices, notes, glossary,
                          index. Paperback; $55.00. ISBN: 1556355815.


                          TextPageKeith B. Miller, editor; Perspectives on an Evolving Creation 2003
                          Eerdmans.
                          A strong Christian case for evolutionary theory According to the authors of
                          this book, who explore  evolutionary theory from a clear Christian perspective,
                          the common view of conflict between evolutionary  theory and Christian faith is
                          mistaken. Written by contributors representing the natural sciences,
                          philosophy, theology, and the history of science, this thought-provoking work
                          is informed by both solid
                          scientific knowledge and keen theological insight. PSCF Review
                          

                          ebooks: (free)

                          Evangelicals, Evolution, and Academics (2008) A series of short articles by
                          Steve Martin, Keith Miller, Dennis Verema, Steve Matheson, Karl Giberson,
                          Gordon Glover, Douglas Hayworth, and Ted Davis; edited by Steve Martin.

                          Ebook and Index for the Student Perspective Series (2009)


                          1. Introduction (Steve Martin)
                          2. My journey from opposing evolution to studying it (Ryan Bebej)
                          3. An evolutionary biology student discovers Christ ... and the toxic
                          anti-evolutionism that often
                          taints the Gospel  (Emiliano Carneiro Monteiro)
                          4. My transition from a conservative creationist to a theistic evolutionist -
                          albeit with some unanswered
                          questions (Eric DeVries)
                          5. Clarifying concepts in the creation-evolution dialogue (Jordan Mallon)
                          6. Avoiding the topic of Evolution in Christian academia: Reflections from a
                          theologystudent (Bethany Sollereder)
                          *

                          Marlowe C. Embree, The Social Psychology of the Origins  Debate (2008) An
                          examination of how our attitudes and beliefs are formed, how bias and prejudice
                          affect  our interaction with others, and how our thinking styles and
                          personality profiles are important factors, all within the context of the
                          origins debate.


                          Charles Darwin (1838-41) The Voyage of the Beagle

                          Charles Darwin (1859) The Origin of Species

                          Charles Darwin (1871) The Descent of Man

                          
                          Reference Works


                          Frederick Gregory, Nature Lost? Natural Science and the German Theological
                          Traditions
                          of the Nineteenth Century. MA: Harvard University Press, 1992.


                          Ronald L. Numbers. The Creationists. New York: Alfred Knopf, 1992.
                          ____. Darwinism Comes to America, 1998
                          ____________________________________________________________________
                          Concluding reflections

                          A Physicist and a historian.


                          Americans remain "a spectacularly religious" people..as long as this is the
                          case...there will be an intense discussion about origins. Science permeates all
                          of American society from top to bottom. ]The rub comes where  the scientific
                          elite wields its cultural dominance irresponsibly and carelessly identifies
                          "scientific knowledge of origins" with an "exhaustive knowledge or
                          understanding of origins" and thereby dismisses religious views as "primitive
                          and therefore false." Religious groups have a responsibility to appreciate that
                          this is an advanced scientific culture and deal with the tough issues that come
                          up. ...the origins debate in America will not go away.
                          
                           --Giberson and Yerxa, Eastern Nazerene College in Species of Origins:
                          America's Search for a Creation Story.

                          A Philosopher

                          The present state of the evolution versus religion controversy is that it is
                          currently being played out as a social, political, and broadly cultural contest
                          roughly equivalent to the "red-state" and "blue-state" political conflict. The
                           controversy begun in large volumes of theological and scientific speculation
                          in Victorian times has now descended to the level of a bumper-sticker war, in
                          the competing Jesus and Darwin fish symbols that appear on the rear of
                          automobiles.  Evolutionary proponents continue to publish popular books
                          claiming that evolutionary concepts can solve every mystery of human existence
                          while religious critics continue to promote biblical "science"  and to exploit
                          the explanatory gaps in orthodox Darwinian theory. French culture and history
                          moved on from the  political conflicts that resulted from the Dreyfus affair
                          and left them unresolved. Attempts to resolve the conflicts  resulting from the
                          religion versus evolution controversy are not likely to be successful because
                          evolutionary materialism and biblical literalism have become political.




                          Books on Genesis

                           

                          --John Caiazza, Rivier College 

                           


                          
                           

                           

                           

                           John Walton  2009. The Lost World of Genesis One: Ancient Cosmology and the
                          Origins Debate. Non-literal days. Genesis reflects ancient cosmology.


                          John Lennox, Seven Days That Divide the World: The Beginning According to
                          Genesis and Science (2011)

                          
                          C. John Collins, Report of the Creation Study Committee (Presbyterian Church in
                          America, 2000) A balanced and thorough examination of Genesis 1-3 by a
                          conservative reformed denomination.

                          Genesis 1-15 by Gordon J. Wenham (Waco, TX : Word Books, c1987.)

                          Other ANE Creation Texts
                          

                            • The Seven Tablets of Creation by Leonard William King
                            • Gerda De Villiers, "The Epic of Gilgamesh," OTE 19/1 (2006), 26­34
                            • Luzac's Semitic text and translation series. vol. xii-xiii, Luzac and Co.
                              London 1902.
                          
                          Dialogues

                           

                          Evolutionary Psychology


                          News and Discussion

                          Fossil Is Missing Link In Elephant Lineage A pig-sized, tusked creature that
                          roamed the fossil1earth some 27 million years ago represents a missing link
                          between the oldest known relatives of elephants and the more recent group from
                          which modern elephants descended, an international team that includes
                          University of Michigan paleontologist William Durham... Science Daily
                          

                          Earth's early battering revealed     Detailed analysis of the oldest rocks on
                          Earth
                          throws new light on one of our planet's most violent phases. BBC News


                          Resources

                          AIBS Evolution Page


                          The Complete Work of Charles Darwin This site currently contains more than
                          50,000 searchable text pages and 40,000 images of both publications and
                          handwritten manuscripts. There is also the most comprehensive Darwin
                          bibliography ever published and the largest manuscript catalogue ever
                          assembled.

                          More than 150 ancillary texts are also included, ranging from secondary
                          reference works to contemporary reviews, obituaries, published descriptions of
                          Darwin's Beagle specimens and important related works for understanding
                          Darwin's context.


                          Robert Schneider has written an up-to-date series of essays on the theme of
                          Creation.


                          Thanks to P. Rust, P. Garrison, D. Fischer,  G. Murphy, R. Miller, D. Campbell,
                          T.  Davis, M. Roberts, G. Glover, S. Martin and T. Gray for their helpful
                          advice .


                                                                                                                
                          Return

                                                                                                       
                                                           

                           

                           

                           

                           

                          lower

                                                                    

