Donate Join The Passionist Family Sign In
The Passionists St. Paul of the Cross Province Menu Daily Reflections Today's
Prayer Prayer Intentions Light A Candle Mass Cards Books

Homepage video 1 Homepage video 2 Homepage video 3 Homepage video 4 Homepage
video 5 Homepage video 6 Homepage video 7

Passion for A Hurting World

The Passionists of St. Paul of the Cross Province belong to a world-wide
community of Passionists, a Catholic religious community founded by St. Paul of
the Cross, one of the great saints and mystics of the Catholic Church. The
Passionists serve as preachers, retreat givers, pastors, educators and in many
other ministries in the Church. Area-wise our Province extends from West
Hartford Connecticut to North Palm Beach, Florida, and as far west as
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The Province of Saint Paul of the Cross is part of a
larger world-wide community of thousands of Passionist priests, brothers,
sisters and nuns who minister in over fifty countries.

Join the Passionist Family

Support the Work of the Passionists

Donate

Make A Donation

Help our priests and brothers continue the mission of our founder, St. Paul of
the Cross.

Candle

Light A Candle

Light a virtual candle and have your prayer posted on our website.

Mass cards

Receive Mass Cards

Give the gift of prayer with a mass card from the Passionists.

Updates

News Newsletter 01 2016

Provincial Newsletter January 2016

Provincial Newsletter, January 2016, Volume 2, Number 1 Click the image below
to download PDF Read More

January 1, 2016 | Comment
News

St. Luke's Haiti and the Year of Mercy

A reflection of photos, memories and the works of mercy of the St Luke Mission
in Haiti. If you would like to donate to St. Luke's, please... Read More

December 9, 2015 | Comment
News

St. Luke's Fundraiser

On Thursday, January 14th 2016, Kenneth Cole and Maria Cuomo-Cole, along with
Adriana Lima and Jozy Altidore, will host a fundraising event in New York to
honor the... Read More

December 7, 2015 | Comment
See More News & Events

Today's Prayer

Todays prayer 2

January 12, 2016

PRAYER OF A WEARY APOSTLE... Thanks I give to you, my God, for the day that is
ending, and thanks for the coming night. Bring sleep to the weary, bring repose
to those... Read more

Daily Reflections

Repent

Repent And Serve

REFLECTION FOR MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2016 First Reading:  1 Samuel 1:1-8 Gospel:
Mark 1:14-20 REPENT AND SERVE As we enter more deeply into... Read More

January 11, 2016 | Comment
Baptism font

Spirit, Come Transform Us

Spirit, Come Transform Us Today we celebrate the Baptism of the Lord.  Imagine
for a moment that we are in the crowd at the River Jordan watching... Read More

January 10, 2016 | Comment
Imagesca28gw1i

Christmas Weekday

Friday January 8, 2016 Christmas Weekday "Lord if you wish, you can make me
clean. Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him and said, I do... Read More

January 8, 2016 | Comment
Read More Daily Reflections
Logo footer

About The Passionists
    St. Paul of the Cross Province
    Our Ministry
    Mission and Charism
    Overseas Missions
    Passionist History
    Become A Passionist
    Passionist Associates

The Passionist Family
    Join The Passionist Family
    Donate
    Prayer Intentions
    Light A Candle
    Mass Cards
    Books
    Novenas

Daily Updates
    Daily Reflections
    Today's Prayer
    News & Events

Contact
    Send Us A Message
    Tell Us About A Passionist
    Conduct Policy

Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Google + Tumblr Share thepassionists.org: 


(C) 2013-2014 Passionist Missionaries all rights reserved. A simple and
effective website by Simande.

