Grace Baptist Church

practicing social justice and freedom principles
Skip to content

  • Home
  • Worship With Us
      □ Sunday Morning Worship
      □ Bible Studies and Small Groups
      □ Spirit of Grace
  • About Us
      □ Pastors
      □ Staff
      □ Contact Us
      □ Get Directions
  • Newsletter
      □ Grace Chimes-Current Issue
      □ Pastor’s Corner
          ☆ Little Shrines
          ☆ A Song For You
          ☆ Unexpected
          ☆ Stewardship
          ☆ Looking At the Man
          ☆ In La Roma
          ☆ On Mansions
          ☆ Thanksgiving
          ☆ After a Meeting
      □ Archives
  • Community of Grace
      □ Grace Community Center
      □ Downtown Streets Team
      □ Shower and Laundry Program
      □ 12-Step Recovery Meetings
  • Give Online

[logoV4]
← Older posts

Welcome!!

Posted on August 29, 2014 by Nathan Henning | Comments Off on Welcome!!

Welcome to Grace Baptist Church!  Thanks for visiting!

We are a downtown church that serves a very eclectic group of people. College
students, homeless, the mental health population, families with young children,
and the LGBTQ community.  In an atmosphere of diversity and dignity, everyone
is welcome to be a part of this exciting congregation. If you ever felt you
don’t fit anywhere else, come to Grace and you’ll find a home!

The latest happenings at Grace will be updated here on our home page.  Just
scroll down to see the latest announcements and upcoming events.

If you would like more information about our church, our worship services,
small groups, or volunteer opportunities, please don’t hesitate to contact us.

 

Comments Off on Welcome!!

Posted in Uncategorized

Image

Little Birds

Psalm 84 says:

My soul longs, yes, I am fainting for the courts where God lives. My heart and
all my being cry out for the God who is alive.  But look! the little bird has
found a hous. The tiny bird has found a home for herself and her young.  There
they are! They live at your altar, O Ruler of all creatures. (paraphrased)

This little warbler was living in Ruby Valley Nevada when I took this picture
several years ago.   Their lives are short, but I cannot see a bird without
praising God.

in the Ruby Marshes, Nevada, USA
    Ruby Marshes

Comments Off on Little Birds

Posted on September 1, 2014 by Stephen Riddle in Musings

Tagged photography, scripture reflection

GBC’s American Baptist Women’s Ministry

Posted on August 19, 2014 by Nathan Henning | Comments Off on GBC’s American
Baptist Women’s Ministry

Grace Baptist Church’s ABW ministry for the 2013-14 year was very successful
despite its shrinking membership.

ABW’s ministry includes donating 26 ditty bags full of knitted caps, socks,
bathroom items, games, and hard candy (total value $312) to the Seafarers
Ministry of the Golden Gate; adopting a low income family via InnVision’s
Christmas Adopt-A-Family program (total value $615); rolled bandages for
mission hospitals in the Condo; and donating monies to various charities ($100
each), such as the Kodiak Alaska Mission, Downtown Street Team Ministries, AB
China Mission, Christmas gifts to GBC’s own homeless, as well as a Love Gift to
ABW National Missions.

ABW - Ditty Bags 2013

GBC’s ABW also holds a tea in May to benefit a chosen Special Project, such as
CIC ministries, digging clean water wells in Haiti, or the local Bill Wilson
Center that helps homeless youth complete their education, find jobs, and
housing. This past year’s total donations totaled $1,940.

Grace’s ABW ladies would be happy to receive financial help from the
congregation with their mission projects. To help, please contact any of the
ABW officers: Doris Vaughan, Marge Burns, or Celaine Krois.

Comments Off on GBC’s American Baptist Women’s Ministry

Posted in Quick Updates

Tagged ABWM, ministry, photos

Annual Homecoming Picnic

Posted on August 16, 2014 by Nathan Henning | Comments Off on Annual Homecoming
Picnic

Sunday, September 21st – 12:30 pm

We hope you will join us for the Annual Homecoming Picnic in History Park! Join
us for the Sunday worship service and then follow the crowd or hitch a ride to
beautiful History Park on Senter Road.

We would especially like to invite those who we haven’t seen in a while. Let’s
truly make this a HOMECOMING event by reconnecting with friends and family and
bringing them to this fun event. It is always a good time! Pick up the phone
and bring someone along :)

GBC 2013 Picnic1GBC 2013 Picnic2GBC 2013 Picnic3GBC 2013 Picnic4GBC 2013
Picnic5

Comments Off on Annual Homecoming Picnic

Posted in Events, Quick Updates

Tagged picnic

Showers at Grace Community Center

Posted on April 16, 2014 by Nathan Henning | Comments Off on Showers at Grace
Community Center

You’ve probably heard about the shower and laundry program for the homeless
that  Grace Community Center runs on Tuesdays and Thursdays.  Now meet some of
the GCC employees that make this possible!  Don Taylor, Melissa Garcia, and
volunteer Lisa Parham help people each week as they look for a respite from the
streets and a place to get clean.  About 60 people take advantage of our hot
showers each week.  There is no shortage of volunteer opportunities here at
Grace.  Contact us if you would like to help!

GCC Shower Volunteers

Comments Off on Showers at Grace Community Center

Posted in Quick Updates

Tagged GCC, showers, volunteer

← Older posts

  • GBC Building Image

    How to find us... We are located at the corner of 10th and San Fernando
    Street. Click here for map

  • Contact Us:

    Grace Baptist Church
    484 E San Fernando St
    San Jose, CA 95112

    Sunday Worship 11 am
    Office Hours M-F 10am-3pm

    408-295-2035
    408-295-2036 (fax)

    email@graceinsanjose.org

  • Bible verse of the day

    The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it.
    John 1:5
  • Search

    Search for: [                    ] [Search]
  • Tags

    ABWM christmas GCC gym holidays homeless In memorium kids against hunger
    Lillaskog Loaves & Fishes ministry photography photos picnic retreat san
    jose scripture reflection showers special services thanksgiving volunteer
    welcome
  • Associations

    [rainbo]

    we are a welcoming and affirming congregation

    Grace Baptist Church of San Jose is a member of Evergreen Association of
    American Baptists ~and~

    American Baptist Churches USA

Proudly powered by WordPress. Theme: Coraline by WordPress.com.
