Church Of Christ New Cross, London
Cross

  • Home
  • About Us
  • Contact Us
  • Education
  • News & Events
  • Ministries
  • Worship
  • Search

 

[newlogo]

74 Wild Goose Drive, New Cross - London SE14 5LL

(Barnes Wallis Community Centre)

 

A Warm Welcome to You !

Current Lessons: 

Theme for 2015:"Study to show thyself approved unto God"  - 2Timothy 2:15

We the members of the Church of Christ at New Cross would like to take this
opportunity to welcome you to our website.

It is our aim to always commit our efforts to sincerely do the will of God so
that He may be glorified and that precious souls will be persuaded to turn to
the Lord, and to the "Faith once delivered unto the saints" (Jude 3)
As God's spokesmen, we are always calling for men to "Stand in the ways and
see, and ask for the old paths, where the good way is, and walk in it; Then you
will find rest for your souls" Jer. 6:16 (NKJV).

Once again welcome and we hope and pray that you will enjoy your visit to this
                                     site.

Our worship service, on the first day of the week, is made up of biblical
teaching, singing, prayer, Lords' supper and Giving. There is also a Wednesday
evening Bible study. On the last Friday of the month, there is a prayer
meeting. We also have Evangelical, Edification and Benevolent ministries, which
seek to evangelise, edify the members, and offer benevolence to the needy in
the church, as well as the community in general.

Contacts:

Church email: cocncorg@cocnc.org

Kufre Inyang

Mob:07754093372, Send Email:                                                   
                                             

Hogan Udo 

 Mob: 07801494938,  Send Email:

 

Today is our quarterly Fellowship Day. Therefore, there will be no evening
service today.

 


                            The work of the Church

                                    Worship

This comprises

1.  Prayers (Phil. 4:6),
2.  Singing - Accapella  (Eph. 5:19),
3. The Lord's Supper (1Cor 11:23-26),
4. The collection (1Cor 16:1-3),
5. Attention to the Scriptures / Preaching (1Tm 4:13).

Evangelism and Edification:

This is really the fifth item under worship above, but is such a "great
commission" that we list it as a separate category of work.  It includes both
preaching to the lost and unconverted, and teaching the church (Matthew
28:18-20).

Benevolence:

This is charitable work in helping those in need (1Cor 9) and was the reason,
incidentally, for the collection referred to in the fourth item of worship
above.

Map directions to reach us @ COCNC


Powered By: gwsappheader.png

In God we Trust

(C) 2016 Church Of Christ New Cross, London. All rights reserved.
Login
