Aierdi farmhouse   [                    ]

  • Home
  • 2014 postcard project
  • Missionary Teen Retreat 12
  • Ministries
      □ Missionary Teen Retreats >
          ☆ MTR11 (Dec 2014)
          ☆ MTR10 (Dec 2013)
          ☆ MTR9 (Dec 2012)
          ☆ MTR8
          ☆ MTR7
          ☆ MTR6
          ☆ MTR5
      □ Retiro de obreros (Workers) >
          ☆ Retiro de obreros 2015 (Workers)
          ☆ Retiro de obreros 2014 (Workers)
      □ Intensive Institutes >
          ☆ Institute 37, enero 23, 2016
      □ Aierdi Missionary Fellowships
  • Aierdi guests
      □ 2013 teams & visitors
      □ 2012 teams & visitors
      □ 2011 teams & visitors
      □ 2010 teams & visitors
      □ 2009 teams & visitors
  • Printing & literature
      □ THE AIERDI MIRACLE (book)
      □ JUST A MINUTE (book)
      □ Christmas 2014 special
      □ Previous postcard projects
      □ Gospel tracts
  • Media
      □ Farmhouse pics
      □ Nature pics
      □ Snow pics
      □ Before & after
      □ Aierdi albums
      □ Picture sequences
      □ Various videos


Picture
The "Aierdi Miracle" is what we call the wonderful story of God’s
providence through which He gave us the rustic old Aierdi farmhouse in
the Basque region of northern Spain. It all began when in 1998 the Lord
led us into a prayer project called “Count the Stars”, based on the
promise He gave to Abraham in Genesis 15:5.
Today we are in the faith-challenging adventure of rebuilding the
centuries-old farmhouse and adapting it for all kinds of
ministries. With the help of many churches and friends, it is slowly
being transformed into a retreat & conference. Although far from
finished, we already use it to host church activities, youth programs,
intensive institutes, retreats, and mission teams throughout the year. 
As we look back and remember the many months of prayer and waiting,
with nothing to stand on but the promise of God and the stars to remind
us of His faithfulness, we praise and worship Him for His wisdom. 
Glory to God! The stars still shine as sparkling witnesses of His
infinite faithfulness and power.
Andy Bonikowsky
Genesis 15:5
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ Picture
Picture                                                                 Order
                                                                        here!
Current Aierdi missionary team (May 2013)

The AMT is a group of independent Baptist church planting missionaries
in the Basque region of Spain. The team started in 1997 when the Lord
directed the Alvarez family to work with the Bonikowskys in the Goierri
towns of Gipuzkoa. Through the years other families and individuals
have joined. Some have stayed nearby while others have set their sights
on one of the many needy communities within an hour's drive. We have
never had a written contract. Our bond is simply the fact that our Lord
Jesus Christ has led us to combine talents, personalities, and energies
to preach the Gospel in the area. We all appreciate the value of the
unique Aierdi farmhouse in the development of our national leadership
and in the hosting of mission teams from our supporting churches in the
USA. Each of us helps in the variety of ministry activities we program
at Aierdi, including local church fellowships, intensive Bible
institutes, youth retreats, missionary teen retreats, and the hosting
of mission teams that come to work on the ongoing reconstruction and
development of the facilities. At this time our team is made up of four
families and a single lady: The Andy Bonikowsky, Juan Alvarez, Randy
Wilkins, and Mike Dodgens families. Miss Sarah O'Brien is our single
co-worker.

Website by Sierra Creation
Proudly powered by Weebly
Quantcast
✕
