Sleat & Strath Free Church

A reformed church in Sleat and Broadford, Isle of Skye

Menu

Skip to content

  • Home
  • About Us (with maps)
  • Services
      □ Typical Service
  • Contact
  • Gospel
      □ Is there any hope?
          ☆ Faith
  • Vision
      □ Leadership Development Plan
      □ Mission Plan

[cropped-dsc00005]
Featured

Welcome!

Welcome to Sleat and Strath FC’s website & blog.

If you are a visitor to Sleat, or the south end of Skye, and looking for a
church you are welcome to worship with us.   We believe the Gospel, are
reformed, evangelical, bible-believing, Presbyterian and, above all, Christian.

Find us on facebook

Posted in Uncategorized
September 14, 2014 by Jedi Rev

Bulletin: 14th September

Diary

Services today:

11:00am @ Sleat – Morning Worship – John 4:24 The Father is Seeking Lost Sheep

5:00pm @ Broadford – Evening Worship – 1 Peter 2:13-17 How should Christians
vote in the Referendum?

Mid-week meetings & events:

Tuesday, 12-2:00pm @ Broadford Village Hall – Mustard Seed Cafe

Wednesday, 7:00pm @ Sleat – National Day of Prayer: Referendum

Next Lord’s Day

11:00am @ Sleat – Morning Worship – John 3:16 The Extra-ordinary Lengths God
Goes To

3:30pm @ Kyleakin – Afternoon Worship

5:00pm @ Broadford – Evening Worship – Luke 12:4-7 Hell is Real

Rotas

If you are unable to carry out rota duty, please arrange cover yourself.

                                              Sunday School
Date      Door             Tea
                                              Crèche
14^th                                         Fiona & Elena
Sept.     J.N. & Mairi L.  Kate & Dolina
                                              Lyn-Anne
21^st                                         Dolina & Shonnie
Sept.     Gordon & Kate    Elena & Shonnie
                                              Maggie
28^th                                         Dolina & Shonnie
Sept.     Alasdair & Carol Mairi M. & Isobel
                                              Carol
                                              Fiona & Elena
5^th Oct. J.N. & Kate      Elena & Dolina
                                              Lyn-Anne

Notices

Edinburgh Theological Seminary Saturday Course

The ETS Saturday Course starts Saturday, 27^th September.   It would be great
to get a group together for this, please talk to Gordon is interested.

Foodbank Training

On Thursday 25th September at the lighthouse Christian centre, a training
evening is being held for all those who are willing to “man” the Foodbank.
7.30-9:00pm. More info from Lesley 544488.

Denominational News

Praying for the independence referendum

Rev Iver Martin, minister of Stornoway Free Church on the Isle of Lewis and
Principal of the Edinburgh Theological Seminary, has written a helpful guide on
what Christians can pray for in the run up to the independence referendum on
Thursday 18 September. You can read the full article on the Free Church of
Scotland website: http://www.freechurch.org

Over £35,000 raised for emergency Iraq and Syria appeal

Thanks to all congregations who have contributed so generously to the emergency
Iraq and Syria appeal. So far over £35,000 has come in, and this will be split
between Tearfund efforts in Syria, and the Federation for the Relief and
Reconciliation in the Middle East – which supports the work of Canon Andrew
White, chaplain of St George’s Anglican Church in Baghdad. Please continue to
pray for Christians and other minorities in these countries who are suffering
in the Islamic State (ISIS) controlled regions.

Concern as Royal Mail opens 100 delivery offices on Sundays

A Free Church minister has criticised a decision by the Royal Mail to open 100
delivery offices on Sundays, adding that money being used to open these
premises could be better spent reducing the price of stamps. Dundee minister
Rev David Robertson described the development as a retrograde step, and also
said it would create a two-tier system with huge swathes of rural areas across
Scotland being excluded from the new service.

North-east Glasgow congregation begins four-month pilot

Please pray for Steven Hay, who is going to be leading services in Lennoxtown
Free Church, near Glasgow, until the end of the year as part of a four-month
pilot. Mr Hay recently completed theological training with Cornhill Scotland in
Glasgow, and is originally from Airdrie. The Lennoxtown congregation hopes to
run a Christianity Explored course in the near future.

Thanks from Highland Harmony Singers

Many thanks to all the folk, including children, who supported Highland
Harmony’s last recital of psalms at Smithton on Saturday 6 September. It was a
wonderful occasion and will leave many good memories! Alison Young from Ellon
conducted, and Alistair Murray did the last item. Highland Theological College
(HTC) Principal Hector Morrison gave a powerful message from Zephaniah on the
God who sings, not only over his perfect creation, but also over ransomed
sinners. Nearly £1,000 was contributed for the work of HTC, Dingwall. Many
thanks again to everyone.

Posted in Uncategorized
July 27, 2014 by Jedi Rev

Bulletin: 27th July

Lord’s Day – 27^th July 2014

Diary

Services today:

11:00am @ Sleat – Morning Worship – Teaching from the Psalms

6:00pm @ TBC – Monthly Joint service with Church of Scotland – Kyleakin Church
of Scotland

Mid-week meetings & events:

Wednesday, 7:00pm @ Sleat – Weekly Bible Study

Next Lord’s Day

11:00am @ Sleat – Morning Worship – Exodus 29 – Set Apart for Service

5:00pm @ Broadford – Evening Worship – 2 Samuel 18-19 – Rebellion’s End

Rotas

Date      Door             Tea                 1. S.

Today     Gordon & Shonnie Kate & Rosie       School Hols.
3^rd Aug. J.N. & Mairi L.  Shonnie & Lyn-Anne School Hols.
10^th     Gordon & Isobel  Carol & Mairi L.   Family Service
Aug.
17^th     Alasdair & Mairi Rosie & Helen      School Hols.
Aug.      L.

Notices

Joint Service with the Church of Scotland

This evening we close to go to the monthly joint service with the Church of
Scotland.   This evening the meeting is at Kyleakin Church of Scotland, at
6:00pm.   There will be a Faith mission preacher.

Holiday Club – Support Meeting

This year’s Holiday Club runs Monday 4^th – Friday 8^th August, from around
9:30am at Sleat Primary school.   We will meet on Wednesday, after the mid-week
fellowship, to settle plans for lunches, etc.

Please also note the following points:

  • Please pray that kids will learn more about God and the Bible, and come to
    faith in him.
  • Please pray for the leaders and helpers.
  • Remember it’s an outreach event – talk to families in your area, encourage
    them to bring their kids, and invite them to the follow BBQ on Friday 8^th
    at the manse and the family service on Sunday 10^th.

Denominational News

Rev Paul Clarke becomes minister of St Andrews

Rev Paul Clarke was inducted as minister of St Andrews Free Church in Fife on
Sunday (20 July). Although the 39-year-old father-of-three had effectively been
senior pastor for the past 15 months, it now formalises his appointment by the
congregation and the Home Missions Board. St Andrews began as a church plant in
2003, and Paul officially became a Free Church minister earlier this year.
Before his move to the north-east of Fife, he ministered for 14 years to one of
the biggest Anglican congregations in England – St Helen’s Bishopsgate in inner
city London. We give thanks for the blessing seen under Paul’s ministry over
the past year.

Remembering the fallen: the First World War

Monday 28 July marks the 100th anniversary of the start of the First World War.
Rev Angus MacRae, minister of Dingwall Free Church and chairman of the Board of
Ministry, has written a thoughtful reflection on the profound effect this had
on ministry in our congregations and their respective communities. Ten Free
Church ministry students lost their lives as well as one minister. Mr MacRae’s
article will be on the Free Church website on Monday: http://www.freechurch.org
Some of the fallen may have been forgotten by the passing of time, but the Lord
Jesus Christ never forgets his own.

Sinclair Ferguson to address John Knox conference in Perth

Leading Presbyterian theologian Rev Dr Sinclair Ferguson is one of two keynote
speakers at a conference in Perth next month commemorating the 500th
anniversary of what is thought to be the birth of John Knox. The day event
fittingly takes place at Knox Church in Perth (Tulloch Terrace) on Monday 11
August. It begins at 7pm, all welcome. Earlier in the afternoon there is a
restricted session aimed at ministers and church leaders. Talks will be led by
Rev Dr Sinclair Ferguson and American pastor Rev Dr Steven J Lawson from
Alabama.

Service to mark reopening of Partick building – Friday 8 August

Partick Free Church are holding a special service on Friday 8th August at
7:30pm to mark the reopening of their upgraded church building.  The building
work was completed earlier in the year and has resulted in the refurbishment of
the sanctuary, as well as the formation of a new kitchen, office, vestry and
toilets on the ground level of the building.  The congregation has appreciated
the support of friends throughout the church while they have been waiting to
return to their premises and extend a warm welcome to all to join them at the
opening service.

Posted in Bulletins
May 16, 2014 by Jedi Rev

Bulletin: 18th May

Diary

Services today:

11:00am @ Sleat – Morning Worship – John 13:18-30 – Judas – The Great Betrayal

3:30pm @ Kyleakin – Monthly Afternoon Service

5:00pm @ Broadford Village Hall – Evening Service – 2 Samuel 13-14 – Family
Fortunes

Mid-week meetings & events:

Tuesday, 12-1:30pm @ Broadford Village Hall – Mustard Seed Cafe

Wednesday, 7:00pm @ Sleat – Weekly bible Study

Next Lord’s Day

11:00am @ Sleat – Morning Worship – John 13:31-38 – A New Commandment & Some
Supreme Over-Confidence

6:00pm @ Venue TBC – Monthly Join Service with Church of Scotland (Church of
Scotland hosting)

Rotas

Date         Door                         Tea
25^th May    Gordon & Isobel              Carol & Mairi
1^st June    Alasdair & Mairi L           Rosie & Helen
8^th June    J.N. & Shonnie               Elena & Rosie

 

Notices

Holiday Club Fund Raiser

Thank you for all the help at the Holiday Club fund raiser on Saturday.

Skye YMCA

A soup and pudding lunch in aid of Skye YMCA will be held on Saturday 31st May
from 12 noon to 2pm at the Old Library, Bayfield Road, Portree.

CWI Annual Tour

We hope to have Ru Maclean, recently appointed as CWI’s Scotland rep., on
Sunday, 1^st June, at the morning service.   The previous Friday evening, he,
along with Mike Moore and David Zadock, will be speaking at Tigh-na-Sgire in
Portree.

South Skye and Lochalsh Foodbank

Lynne Kearns writes, “We are especially looking for volunteers to man the
Foodbank for 2 hours on a Friday every four / five weeks but also people to
help with stock and driving.   We are having an open meeting on Tuesday 10 June
7.30 pm in the Lighthouse Centre and we invite anyone who wants to find out
more to attend.  Or call in at the Lighthouse Centre on Fridays, leave their
details and I will contact them.”

Denominational News

General Assembly Week

If you want to follow the General Assembly by webcam, visit:

www.freechurch.org

Alternative ministry arrangements to be discussed

The Home Missions Board (HMB) is presenting plans for alternative ministry
arrangements, which would allow congregations to appoint a minister on a
flexible basis with a potential reduction in stipend. The agreement would need
to be made locally and at no cost to the HMB. Any applications would be passed
to the Presbytery along with a ministry development plan.

Proposals to make church committees more efficient

Proposals from the Board of Trustees will slim down the number of Assembly
committees from 12 to six with fewer committee members. The Board said this
would make committee work more streamlined and effective, with the added
benefit of reducing expenditure. The Home and International Missions Boards
would merge from 2015, with Presbyteries reclaiming the primary responsibility
for ministry and mission within their own bounds.

Rev Dr Sinclair Ferguson to speak at Seminary launch

Rev Dr Sinclair Ferguson will help launch the Edinburgh Theological Seminary at
the Assembly, by giving an address on Wednesday 21 May at 7.30pm. The Seminary
officially replaces the Free Church College. In encouraging news, several
private students will begin their studies at the Seminary in September
alongside a healthy intake of Free Church ministry candidates. The College
Board also acknowledges the selfless gesture of the Professors, who have all
taken a cut in stipend in order to help attain financial savings.

Free Church releases papers on independence referendum

Four papers discussing the place of Christianity in a post-referendum Scotland
have been released online (www.freechurch.org). Skye minister Rev Gordon
Matheson and solicitor and elder Neil DM MacLeod, write from a pro-independence
perspective, with Prof Donald Macleod and former Moderator Rev Dr John Ross
writing in defence of the union. All four papers call for positive practical
engagement in national political discourse, and commit to working with
politicians from all parties regardless of the vote.

Committee proposes three-day Assembly for 2015

The 2015 Free Church General Assembly should only last three days, according to
the report of the Assembly Arrangements Committee. It is hoped that the
evenings would involve shorter business sessions and include worship items. The
Committee has also recommended that invitations to other denominations and
organisations be issued only every third year, so representatives do not all
attend in the same year.

2013 remittances increase

We are pleased to report that congregational remittances for 2013 increased by
£120,000 on the previous year. The Board of Trustees is thankful to God for
this encouragement, and thanks all who give so generously to the work of the
Church given the challenging economic climate.

Royal visit to Assembly

On Thursday 22 May, Prince Edward will visit the Free Church General Assembly.
The Earl of Wessex, who is this year’s Lord High Commissioner, is expected to
address the Assembly at 12 noon.

WfM annual meeting

The annual meeting of Women for Mission takes place on Thursday 22 May at 2pm
in Presbytery Hall.

Assistant minister petitions

Greyfriars in Inverness, Kilmallie near Fort William and St Columba’s in
Edinburgh have applications to call assistant ministers. Smithton in Inverness
ask for permission to renew their assistant arrangement at Nairn.

 

Posted in Bulletins
April 27, 2014 by Jedi Rev

Bulletin: 27th April

Diary

Services today:

11:00am @ Sleat – Morning Worship – John 12:20-36 – The Hour Has Come

6:00pm @ Sleat – Monthly Joint Service with Church of Scotland

Mid-week meetings & events:

Tuesday, 12-1:30pm @ Broadford Village Hall – Mustard Seed Cafe

Wednesday, 7:00pm @ Sleat – Weekly Bible Study

Next Lord’s Day

11:00am @ Sleat – Morning Worship – John 12:37-50 – Just what does it mean to
believe?

5:00pm @ Broadford Village Hall – Evening Service – 2 Samuel 11 – David’s Slide
into Sin

Rotas

Date         Door                         Tea
4^th May     J.N. & Kate                  Shonnie & Mairi L.
11^th May    Gordon & Alasdair            Kate & Rosie
18^th May    J.N. & Mairir L.             Shonnie & Lyn-Anne

 

Notices

Monthly Joint Service

This evening we will host the regular joint service with the Church of
Scotland.   This will be in Sleat, and will be followed by the usual time for
fellowship.

Dates for Holiday Club Fund Raiser

We hope to run a fund raising coffee morning / soup & sandwich lunch to raise
funds for the summer Holiday Club.   The Ardvassar Hall is available a number
of Saturdays after Easter.   Please speak to Shonnie Miller if there are any
dates you would prefer.

Discipleship Explored

DE is an 8-week study course designed ideally for people who have come to faith
recently, or anyone who is interested in learning more about personal Bible
Study and walking with the God.   We are hoping to start a group going through
this course a week on Thursday (8^th May), meeting ideally in the evening at
the manse.   If you are interested, please talk to Gordon after the service, or
phone.   We can be more flexible with the day/time to suit people, but that
really depends on who wants to take part.

Denominational News

Govan church plant sources office accommodation

A pioneering church plant in one of the most deprived parts of Glasgow has been
able to source premises in the heart of the area. The G51 church group, led by
Free Church minister Rev Norman Mackay in his hometown of Govan, will be based
at the Pearce Institute. The office space that the group is renting will
accommodate small groups for Bible study, but there are bigger halls within the
building if required.

WFM annual meeting in Edinburgh – Thursday 22 May

The annual meeting of Women for Mission (WFM) takes place in Edinburgh on
Thursday 22 May, beginning at 2pm. There will be the usual mission speakers, a
final update on the Viva South America project and the launch of a new
supported project. A crèche will also be provided. It is hoped to run a bus
again from the north, please contact Mairi Macleod on 01463 792 045 or
mairileod@aol.com by 1 May to confirm your place.

Special presentation – the naval policy of the Free Church of Scotland

The National Archives near London are next week hosting a special presentation
on ‘the naval policy of the Free Church of Scotland’. The novel talk will be
given by Alex Ritchie on Thursday 1 May at 2pm. Mr Ritchie will  look at the
floating church of Loch Sunart, the floating manse described by Hugh Miller in
his publication ‘The Cruise of the Betsey’, as well as the Free Church yacht
‘Breadalbane’ – which ferried ministers to remote locations. It is hoped a
podcast will be available on the Free Church website afterwards.

Free Church Youth Camps training days

With the summer fast approaching, the Free Church Youth Camps team have
organised a number of training days to help equip leaders. These are: Saturday
3 May at Stornoway Free Church led by Andy Cumming, on the same day at Glasgow
City Free Church led by Rev Derek Lamont, and on Saturday 10 May at Greyfriars
Free Church in Inverness led by Rev Colin Macleod. All sessions begin at 9.30am
and should conclude by 3.30pm.

Encouraging response to Wester Ross holiday club

We are pleased to report that 40 children attended the recent Easter holiday
club organised by the Gairloch and Kinlochewe congregations and Skye and Wester
Ross youth worker Susan Maclean. Glasgow City’s Rev Dr Colin Dow spoke at a
friends and family dinner on the Friday night, and the week culminated with the
Free North’s Rev Colin Macleod leading the Sunday services. Neighbouring
churches also attended the evening service.

Posted in Bulletins, Discipleship Explored
March 23, 2014 by Jedi Rev

Bulletin – 23rd March

Diary

Services today:

11:00am @ Sleat – Morning Worship – John 10:22-42 – All that John said about
this man

5:00pm @ Broadford – 2 Samuel 5-6 – Jerusalem

Mid-week meetings & events:

Tuesday, 12:00-2:00pm @ Broadford Village Hall – Mustard Seed Cafe

Wednesday, 7:00pm @ Sleat – Monthly Prayer Meeting

Next Lord’s Day

11:00am @ Sleat – Morning Worship – John 11 – Lazarus and the Tears of God

6:30pm @ Broadford – Faith Mission Convention – Gospel Meeting

                                                                          Rotas

┌────────────┬────────────────────────────┬────────────────────┐
│Date        │Door                        │Tea                 │
├────────────┼────────────────────────────┼────────────────────┤
│30^th March │J.N. & Mairi L.             │Kate & Dolina       │
├────────────┼────────────────────────────┼────────────────────┤
│6^th April  │Gordon & Carol              │Communion           │
├────────────┼────────────────────────────┼────────────────────┤
│23^rd March │Alasdair & Kate             │Mairi M & Isobel    │
└────────────┴────────────────────────────┴────────────────────┘

 

Notices

Skye Convention – Faith Mission

This weekend sees the annual Skye Convention, organised by the Faith Mission.  
Meetings are:

  • Thursday & Friday – 7:30pm – Kyleakin Church of Scotland
  • Saturday – 10:00am – Prayer Meeting at Kyleakin Church of Scotland
  • Saturday – 4:00pm and 7:00pm – Broadford Village Hall
  • Sunday – 6:30pm – Gospel Meeting at Broadford Village Hall
  • Sunday – 8:15pm – Closing Convention Meeting at B.V.H.

Our service next Sunday evening will close for this this.

Communion Service

The next communion service in the congregation will be held Sunday 6^th
April.   Anyone wishing to profess faith in Jesus Christ for the first time, or
join the congregation from another church, is invited to contact Gordon in
advance, to arrange to meet with the Kirk Session.

Denominational News

Wanted: new name for Free Church children’s magazine

The search is well and truly on for a new name for the Free Church of
Scotland’s children’s magazine. There have been many changes to The Instructor
since 1906, and now it has been decided to find a more appropriate title. A
competition has been launched in the March edition of the magazine, with a top
prize on offer for the winner. It is hoped the new name will first appear on
the 2014 October edition. Please send your entries to the editor: Mrs Irene
Howat, 57 Garvine Road, Coylton, Ayr, KA6 6NZ.

Special offer for new book by Professor Donald Macleod

The Free Church bookshop in Edinburgh will continue its special offer on
Professor Donald Macleod’s new book until the end of March. The hotly
anticipated ‘Christ Crucified: Understanding the atonement’ is available for
purchase from 21 March. Retailing at £16.99, the bookshop is offering a special
deal of just £10.50 per copy. To place your order email bookshop manager
Charlie Douglas at bookshop@freechurchofscotland.org.uk

New e-book on Thomas Guthrie out now

A new e-book about the role of the family from a leading Free Church minister
at the time of the Disruption has been made available on Amazon. ‘God’s
Institution of the Family’, based on a famous General Assembly address by Rev
Dr Thomas Guthrie in 1862, is a challenging short paper on the Biblical
responsibilities of Christian parents and their covenanted children. The e-book
has been carefully pieced together by Guthrie enthusiast and blogger Mr Andrew
Murray. Download from Amazon for 77p.

Former London City minister nominated for top US church role

A former Free Church minister in London is expected to be called as senior
minister of one of the biggest Presbyterian congregations in America. Rev David
Strain, who studied at the Free Church College in Edinburgh and pastored the
London City congregation for five years, has been unanimously recommended to
the post at the 2,100-member First Presbyterian Church of Jackson, Mississippi
by its Kirk Session. Mr Strain is expected to follow in the footsteps of Ligon
Duncan.

New edition of Free out now

The April/May edition of Free magazine is now available. This issue has an
interview with a Christian vet, and also a feature on the pitfalls of
superstition.

Trotternish spring mission

We give thanks for the attendance at the Trotternish Spring Mission event on
Sunday. Around 100 people came along to the special praise evening.

Thanks from FCYC kitchen

A huge thank you to the volunteers who got in touch after last week’s appeal
for kitchen helpers at the youth conference. We are pleased that three extra
people can help the team. Please remember to pray for those involved with the
conference, which runs from 21-23 March.

Sexual temptation – Proverbs 7

Coatbridge minister Rev Ivor MacDonald has written a helpful guide for those
struggling with sexual temptation. Based on a sermon on Proverbs 7, it can be
read on the Free Church website.

Posted in Bulletins
January 12, 2014 by Jedi Rev

Bulletin – 12th January

Diary

Services today:

11:00am @ Sleat – Morning Worship – John 8:1-11 – A Woman’s Tale

5:00pm @ Broadford Village Hall – Evening Worship – 1 Samuel 25 – Another
Woman’s Tale

Mid-week meetings & events:

Tuesday, 12:oo-1:30pm @ Broadford Village Hall – Mustard Seed Cafe

Wednesday, 7:00pm @ Sleat – Weekly Bible Study

Next Lord’s Day

11:00am @ Sleat – Morning Worship – John 8:12-30 – “I am the light of the
world”

3:30pm @ Kyleakin Free Church – Monthly Service

5:00pm @ Broadford Village Hall – Evening worship – 1 Samuel 27-31 – National
Calamity

Notices

Duty rotas

Please collect a copy of the Sunday morning duty rotas as you leave.

Mustard Seed Cafe

The Mustard Seed Cafe resumes this Tuesday lunchtime.   The Cafe tea are always
on the lookout for people who might be willing to help, so please contact Carol
(822 419) for a space on the roster.

Christianity Explored

It has been a while since we’ve had a CE group running, but there is now a
concerted effort to begin a new group towards the end of January.   If you are
interested in coming yourself, or know someone who is, please speak to Gordon.

Finance Committee

The Finance committee will meet a week on Wednesday (22^nd January), at 8:00pm,
after the midweek meeting.

Gift Aid & Envelopes

New envelopes are available from Donald John (833 207).   If you would like to
Gift Aid your givings, please ask for a form to do so.   This enables us to
claim about 20% more from your donations if you are a tax payer.

Discipleship Explored

DE is a follow up course to Christianity Explored, designed with people who
want to go on in the faith after CE in mind.   It introduces many key Biblical
teachings about the benefits Christians have because of their faith and
connection with Christ.

This course would really benefit people who have recently been converted,
whether in membership or not.   Please think about this – again, we hope to
have this ready to run towards the end of January, or into February.

Denominational News

Rev David Randall accepts Falkirk call

On Tuesday night (7 January) Rev David Randall accepted a call to be the next
minister of Falkirk Free Church. The 42-year-old arrives with his wife Linnea
and four children from Newmilns in Ayrshire. Mr Randall had been a Church of
Scotland minister, but left due to the denomination’s continued departure from
the Bible on various issues. Falkirk has been without a minister since May,
when Rev Norman Mackay left to establish a new church group in Govan, Glasgow.
An induction date will be announced soon.

Tain manse family to feature on TV documentary

A former BBC producer is to feature in a fly-on-the-wall documentary looking at
the role of the minister’s wife in Scottish churches. Mairi MacAulay, who is
married to Tain and Fearn Free Church minister Rev Alasdair MacAulay, is one of
three wives featuring on the special series on BBC Alba. For the past 18 months
a camera crew have been following  the MacAulays from Alasdair’s completion of
his studies for the ministry to the nitty gritty of parish life in Easter Ross.
The first episode is on Friday (10 January) at 8.30pm, and will be available
afterwards to watch on BBC iPlayer for seven days.

Prayer request for work of Home Missions Board

The chairman of the Home Missions Board (HMB) Rev Derek Lamont is taking a
one-month sabbatical from the St Columba’s congregation in Edinburgh to focus
on the work of the wider Free Church. The HMB’s remit encompasses ministry
matters like redevelopment and church extension charges, finance and youth
work. Please pray for wisdom as the HMB works with Presbyteries to produce
plans for the way ahead given the spiritual needs of the nation and the
financial limitations the Free Church faces as it matches expenditure to
income.

Royalty expected at Free Church General Assembly

Prince Edward will be Her Majesty The Queen’s representative at the 2014
General Assembly, it has been announced. Although the Earl of Wessex will
primarily be involved with the Church of Scotland’s Assembly across the road at
New College, it is expected that he will make a short address to the Free
Church General Assembly which meets in St Columba’s Free Church at the top of
the Royal Mile on Johnston Terrace. It is the first time that Prince Edward has
been the Lord High Commissioner – last year it was Baron Selkirk of Douglas.
The General Assembly runs from 19-23 May.

Posted in Bulletins, Christianity Explored, Discipleship Explored
December 14, 2013 by Jedi Rev

Bulletin: 15th December

Child is born

Diary

Services today:

11:00am @ SMO – Joint Christmas Service & the College – “For unto us a child is
born”

5:00pm @ Broadford – Evening Service – 1 Samuel 23-24 – David: “I will not kill
the Lord’s Anointed”

Mid-week meetings & events:

Wednesday, 7:00pm @ Sleat – Weekly Bible Study

Friday, 7:00pm @ The Manse – Mince Pies & Mulled Wine

Next Lord’s Day (22^nd December)

11:00am @ Sleat – Morning Worship – J.N. Macdonald

5:00pm @ Kyleakin Free Church – Evening Worship – Cameron Tallach

Sunday 29^th December

11:00am @ Sleat – Morning Worship – J.N. Macdonald

6:00pm @ Kyleakin Village Hall – Joint District Communion

New Year’s Day

12:00 Midday @ Sleat – New Year’s Day Service

 

Notices

Mince Pies & Mulled Wine

The annual mince pie eating competition at the manse will be help on Friday 20^
th, from 7:00pm.   Feel free to pop in any time that evening for some mince
pies and mulled wine (other snacks and beverages will be available).

Annual Leave

Gordon expects to be away on annual leave from Saturday, 21^st December, for
about two weeks.   Please contact the elders in the event of any urgent
pastoral concerns.

Meetings over Christmas / New Year (D.V.)

The services next Lord’s Day will be conducted by J.N. Macdonald and Cameron
Tallach.   Please note, the evening service will be in Kyleakin Free Church, as
there is a fund-raising event in the Broadford Village Hall on Saturday.

The mid-week meetings on Wednesdays 25^th December and 1^st January are
cancelled, however there will be a noon service on New Year’s Day, at the
church in Sleat.

The morning service on the 29^th December will be lead by J.N. Macdonald.   The
evening service will be a quarterly joint district communion service in
Kyleakin Village Hall, where John Murdo Macdonald (Grace Community Church,
Kyle) will preach.

 

Denominational News

Missions co-ordinator appointed to Ayrshire congregations

Ayr and Kilwinning have become the first Free Church congregation to appoint a
missions co-ordinator with the specific aim of helping to communicate the Bible
to an unbelieving world. Free Church missionary Clive Bailey, who was
previously headmaster of one of the biggest Christian schools in Peru, has
accepted the role. Clive’s duties include promoting and developing a missional
mindset for the congregation, exploring possible avenues of training for
individuals or groups in the field of mission, as well as examining good
practice elsewhere in the Free Church and the possibilities of similar
implementation in the Ayrshire area.

New elders and deacons for Livingston

Last week the Livingston Free Church congregation ordained a new elder and two
new deacons, as well as inducting another elder. Iain MacIver and Professor
John Angus Macleod are the new elders, and they are joined by Andy Murray and
Kenny Sutherland. Do remember these men in their new duties as well as the work
of the Livingston congregation.

Passing of Rev Hugh M Ferrier

We are sad to announce the passing of former Free Church Moderator Rev Hugh M
Ferrier. His funeral will be held today (Wednesday 11 December) at 12.30pm in
the Free North in Inverness. Mr Ferrier was ordained and inducted to Golspie in
1952 and served subsequently at Knockbain, Partick and the Free North before
retiring in 1990. We offer his family our deepest sympathy in their loss but we
are comforted by the fact that a valiant soldier has gone home to the Lord.

Rev David Robertson in live TV debate with Peter Tatchell

Rev David Robertson is going head to head with veteran British gay rights
campaigner Peter Tatchell in a televised debate about the future of marriage
tonight (Wednesday 11 December). At 9pm the minister of St Peter’s Free Church
in Dundee will square off with Mr Tatchell on Christian broadcaster Revelation
TV. Tune in on Freesat channel 692, Sky channel 581 or online: http://
www.revelationtv.com/webdev/

New website consultation

The Free Church is moving towards redeveloping its denominational website and
would like to hear from its visitors. A survey has been set up for website
users to complete online: https://www.surveymonkey.com/s/FNJ6SXM Suggestions
can also be emailed to: Gordon@freechurchofscotland.org.uk

Posted in Bulletins

Post navigation

← Older posts
Search [                    ] [Search]
Archives

  • September 2014
  • July 2014
  • May 2014
  • April 2014
  • March 2014
  • January 2014
  • December 2013
  • November 2013
  • October 2013
  • September 2013
  • August 2013
  • June 2013
  • May 2013
  • April 2013
  • March 2013
  • February 2013
  • January 2013
  • March 2012
  • November 2011
  • October 2011
  • September 2011
  • August 2011
  • June 2011
  • May 2011
  • April 2011
  • March 2011
  • February 2011
  • January 2011
  • December 2010
  • November 2010
  • April 2010
  • March 2010
  • February 2010
  • October 2009
  • August 2009
  • June 2009
  • May 2009

Meta

  • Register
  • Log in

Blog at WordPress.com. | The Misty Lake Theme.
Sleat & Strath Free Church
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. The Misty Lake Theme.
Follow

Follow “Sleat & Strath Free Church”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 355 other followers

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
