bg image(http://www.reformedreader.org/atrr/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/
intro.linen_.bg_.png)

[a]                                                                                                                        
  committed to historic Baptist & Reformed beliefs             history        documents        library            biography
                                                                                                                          

                                                                                 [                              ] [Search]
[baptistcameos]

 

    rauschenbusch2.jpg (2770 bytes)Walter Rauschenbusch, 1861-1918

    Walter Rauschenbusch is known as the father of the Social Concern movement
    in America. Traditionally, the source of his social ethic has been seen to
    lie in the single motif of liberalism. Donovan Smucker provides a new
    perspective, arguing that Rauschenbusch's social ethic was based on not one
    but four complementary influences: pietism, sectarianism, liberalism, and
    transformationism.

    In Rauschenbusch's work pietism, a religion of the heart, was purged of
    subjectivism while retaining inter-personal compassion; Anabaptist
    sectarianism provided a Kingdom of God love-ethic without passivity toward
    the culture; liberalism imparted an openness to the whole community and a
    powerful, realistic analytic; and the transformationist Christian
    socialists supplied a case for state intervention while rejecting public
    ownership as a first principle. Smucker reveals that while the roots of
    Rauschenbusch's new paradigm lay to some extent in his personal experiences
    - his parents' rejection of the Lutheran perspective for that of the
    Baptists, his father's pietism, and his eleven-year pastorate in New York's
    Hell's Kitchen - it was his exposure to the new politics of Henry George
    and Edward Bellamy, to the Christian socialism of England and Switzerland,
    and, aided by his knowledge of German and his experiences in Europe, to a
    wide range of scholarship sensitive to the main social currents of the day
    that deeply informed his ethic. Smucker also shows how Rauschenbusch drew
    upon the work of Christian ethicists, historians, and sociologists to
    support his new pluralistic synthesis.

    Donovan E. Smucker

     

    Walter Rauschenbusch served for eleven years as pastor of the Second
    Baptist Church in New York City's "Hell's Kitchen." Acknowledged as a
    loving pastor and social prophet, he did much to comfort the afflicted and
    afflict the comfortable. Although Rauschenbusch has long been recognized as
    the "Father of the Social Gospel," the religious convictions and
    experiences that shaped and molded this man and his ideas have often been
    ignored. "The ideal of the Kingdom of God," he said, "is not identified
    with any special social theory. It means justice, freedom, fraternity,
    labor, joy. Let each social system and movement show us what it can
    contribute, and we will weigh its claims."

    The passion of Rauschenbusch to see God's will done "on earth as it is in
    heaven" has inspired a large number of pastors and social reformers. I
    remember attending the church he pastored (some 50 years later), seeing his
    picture on the wall, and wondering what kind of man he was. As I began my
    pastoral and community work, I read more books about and by him. His work
    and passion has also had a formative influence on my work in community and
    it is for that reason that I intend to share some of his writings on this
    website. I will be adding excerpts from books & magazines over time.

    Harry Lehotsky

[Close Window]
