 
Therefore, if anyone is in Christ,  he is a new creation. The old has passed
away; behold, the new has come.
 
Become a new creation
in the new year
 
 
JOIN US EACH SUNDAY
Traditional Worship 10:30 AM
Contemporary Worship 6:30 PM

FIRST UNITED METHODIST CHURCH of BRADENTON

  •  
  •  
  •  

[                    ] []
  • Home
  • WORSHIP
  • Connect
      □ Giving
      □ Small Groups
      □ Teams
  • Prayer Request
  • Youth
  • Children
  • Devotional
  • I’m New
      □ History
      □ Beliefs
  • Upcoming Events
  • Fine Arts
  • Location/Contact Us

 
 
WORSHIP
 
JOIN US
 
SUNDAYS                                                     WEDNESDAYS
9:15 a.m. Adult Sunday School                        5:30 p.m. Fellowship Meal
10:30 a.m. Traditional Worship                      6:15 p.m. Bible Studies  
 
5:00 p.m. Children, Youth & Adult Classes
6:30 p.m. “The Journey” Contemporary Worship

TRADITIONAL WORSHIP

Our traditional service features   the timeless majesty of one of     the
largest pipe organs in Manatee County played by the renowned composer Dr. James
Culver. Dr. Culver also leads our thirty voice, multi part choir which offers
Manatee County some of the   finest traditional music in the state of Florida.
This weekly service offers the historic tradition of the psalter, creeds and
sound Biblical preaching. Communion is offered the first Sunday of the month
and on holy days.

 
 
 
THE JOURNEY

The Journey is our contemporary service blended with an emerging church
experience.  This worship service is a place to make new friends, learn to grow
spiritually and discover what God has in store for you.  The Journey is
designed to involve you throughout the worship experience, creating community
and allowing you to develop your faith.  This service features our praise team
playing all the latest songs on Christian radio so you can continue
your worship experience throughout your week whenever you listen to the radio.
The preaching is interactive so expect the Journey to involve you in ways that
traditional worship doesn’t. Sermons will focus on issues that affect your day
to day life. Come to The Journey and expect to find the Holy Spirit waiting on
you.

 

CONNECT

 

We Are

The Church

 

We believe the church is not somewhere you go, it’s something you are. We know
that God is moving through His church, and we want you to be a part of it.
There are several ways you can get involved.

getconnected

Growth: Invite a friend

 Church to us is more than somewhere  we go for an hour each week. It is a
 community of people committed to  living life together. It is friends and
 family. It is a place where we find  meaning and purpose. People who have
 never experienced what it truly means  to belong and have people who deeply
 care for you might not understand, but  it is important to us to share what we
 have found here at FUMCB.  Inviting  others  to join us in our worshiping,
 serving and fellowshipping community  is important to us.

aboutus
 
 
Groups: Join a small group

The small group is at the core of life   for a disciple. A small group consists
   of eight to twelve people committed     to helping one another grow
spiritually. Sometimes they are someone available to lean on with the ups and
downs of life.  Modeled after the twelve disciples of Jesus, a small group is
committed to being there for one another as they conquer life’s obstacles
together.  We have groups that meet only four to six weeks. This allows you to
sample the small group experience without committing to a lengthy time frame.  
 We also offer long term small groups  for people who want to dive deeper  
into life.

bg4

Gifts: Join a team

Whether it is a short term mission trip to Africa, Ecuador or Haiti,or
participating in an ongoing local project, teams are where faith gets put into
action. Teams make a difference in the world outside the walls of the church.
 FUMCB offers a number of teams for you to use your gifts to make the world a
better place while living out your faith.  We have several short term foreign
mission teams, local ministry teams, such as our men’s home repair team and our
homeless ministries, that would love to have your help.

giving

Giving: Give online

The Christian life is marked by gratitude.  Gratitude for all that we have been
given.  Our families and friends; the wonders of the world around us; the
ability to earn a living; our place in God’s Kingdom and our place in Christ’s
body, the church.  Our reaction to this sense of gratitude is giving to share
the blessings we have received with others.  God is love and we model this love
through our giving.

Let us pray for you.  Please complete form below and send.
 
Your prayer requests are given to our Prayer Team,
and prayed over daily and each Wednesday during their meeting.

Your Name (required)
[                                        ]

Your Email (required)

Your Prayer Request
[                                        ]
[                                        ]
[                                        ]
[                                        ]
[                                        ]
[                                        ]
[                                        ]
[                                        ]
[                                        ]
[                                        ]

[Send]

From Everlasting to Everlasting Church Web Banner
Romans 12:2
^ Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your
mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and
acceptable and perfect.
Welcome to the E.D.G.E.!  We understand the challenges teens face in their
daily lives. We realize they may be close to the edge or balancing on an edge 
in their life choices every day. What should you do once you are on the edge.  
At this point they can turn and walk away from the edge (God encounter) or
jump. We are a group committed to living for Jesus 24/7. We emphasize living a
life set apart from the ways of the world and to be transformed in God’s image.
God’s word promises an abundant life with blessings and guidance when we chose
to follow him. The purpose of every gathering is to help each student find
their identity in Christ.
 
The youth of FUMCB meet every Sunday at 5:00 pm in the youth room on the top
floor.  We hope to see you soon.
 
 
 
Kids Website Banner
Pre-School
Sunday School
Choir
 
 
 
 
 

DEVOTIONAL

This Week’s Devotional Series

 

Welcome to First United Methodist Church of Bradenton. You are God’s
workmanship, created in Christ to do good works! We’ll help you discover the
life of high adventure when you surrender all to Jesus.
All of the devotions you read on this site are written by the pastor and other
members of our church.  
 
 
 
 
 
 

Monday

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Tuesday

 
 
 
 
 
 

Wednesday

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Thursday

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Friday

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Saturday

facebook 

I’M NEW

Welcome to First United Methodist Church of Bradenton.  We are so excited you
have taken the time to visit us.  Our church is more than its building.  It is
a community of friends and family from every walk of life.  We welcome all to
come visit and find their place to belong.
CONTACT US
Bitmap
Adam Zele
Pastor
 
Adam gave his life to Christ when he was 25 and has been a pastor for almost
twenty years (part of that time as a youth pastor).  Adam didn’t start out as a
pastor, he attended the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and
began a career in business before God called him into ministry.  After being
called into ministry Adam attended Duke University where he earned a Master of
Divinity and then a Ph.D. in history and religion.  Adam has lived and traveled
all over.  Although he grew up in primarily in Tucson, Arizona, Adam has lived
in six different states, but has found a home in Florida since 1988.  Adam has
also visited thirty seven states and over forty different countries.  Adam has
been married to Virginia for 24 years and has two children, Ana (22) and Josh
(18).  When Adam isn’t at the church he likes to read, jog and ride his
bicycle.
face1Jim Culver
Music Director

Jim lives in Safety Harbor, FL with his wife, Rebecca and their daughter Liz,
who is a junior at the Pinellas County Center for the Arts. Their older
children are…married and working (Meghan), pregnant (Brandon), working on a
Ph.D. (Chelsea), owning his own paint company (Drew) and graduating college
(Eric). 

As an organist/conductor, Jim’s appearances include St. Peter’s Basilica at the
Vatican, the National Cathedral in Washington, D.C., and on ABC television’s
Good Morning America. As a composer, Jim’s choral, vocal, hand bell, piano,
organ, and instrumental works have sold over 160,000 copies through 5
publishing houses.  

Jim enjoys humor, painting, yoga, golf, a vegan diet, and long walks.  His
passion is to create loving community through music, enhancing our worship and
the lives of those who so faithfully volunteer their time and talents.

 

 

face2

Donna Skalecki
Administrative Assistant

I became the Administrative Assistant at FUMCB in 2007 when the former
assistant (of many years) moved on to help her husband in his ministry. I
joined the church in 2009 and have grown through the many studies and Bible
teaching the church has offered. I am married with two children and four
grandchildren, and enjoy spending time with them. Besides church, I enjoy
camping, kayaking, reading, Nascar, junken (that’s hitting the yard sells and
Thrift stores), and Christian television shows. My favorite verse in the Bible
is “but they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength, they shall mount
up with wings like eagles, they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and
not faint. Isaiah 40:31.  

Bitmap2

Carrie Moore
Financial Secretary
 
I joined the FUMCB staff in 2014. My family and I moved to the Bradenton area
in 2013 from Georgia.  I have been married to my husband, Greg for 25+ years.
We have 5 boys, the youngest 2 are identical twins.  The 2 oldest boys, Caleb
and Garren, still live in Georgia. Levi, Gunnar and Sawyer are active in their
schools and are members of the FUMCB youth group.  I enjoy spending time with
my family whether it is taking road trips or a game night.  

 

face3

 

Becky McGowin
Preschool Director

I have attended FUMCB since I was a young girl and have enjoyed many of the
programs that have been available to me here including, choir, hand bells,
bible study classes, youth group, and the Wednesday night dinners.  I have a
family in town and scattered across the nation, but I love having my church
family here to help me with prayer and fellowship.  I have been working in the
field of Early Childhood Education at First For Kids since 2000 and strive to
teach our young students about our loving God who created us all.   

 

face4

 

Cecil Hulsey
Praise & Youth Leader
 

I was raised in Howard city Michigan, a very small town. At the age of 13 I was
introduced to the art of music. I attended a Christian concert at my local
school and decided then I was going to learn all that I could about music. I
play many different instruments such as Guitar, Cello, Piano, Organ, Drums, and
Bass. Voice is what I would consider to be my favorite instrument. It has the
power to move mountains, calm seas, and bring love. My mission as Worship
leader is to usher in the presence of the Holy Spirit. So they god can
intervene and mix up our lives for the better.

Philippians 4:13, Philippians 3:3, and Romans 12:2 are standards in which dwell
in.

 
 
facebook  
 

UPCOMING EVENTS

 
CHECK OUT WHAT’S NEXT

FUMCB has a variety of activities and ministry opportunities and we invite you
to check out what is coming up next. Feel free to call and find out more about
involvement and inviting others to be involved.

BULLETINS
 
NEWSLETTERS
 
CALENDARS
facebook   
 
 
 
 
 
Bradenton Community Fine Arts Concert Series
Presented by
First  United Methodist Church of Bradenton
 
 
Fine Arts Brochure
Exciting and free concert series in a beautiful historic setting with great
acoustics.  
Click the link above to see the artists performing this year.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

LOCATION

STOP BY AND SAY HELLO

We would love you to join us or just stop by and say hello.

Our Address: 603 11th Street W, Bradenton, FL 34205.

Phone: 941-747-4406 Click here to contact us by email.

 
facebook     google-plus     twitter

 

  • Home
  • WORSHIP
  • Connect
  • Prayer Request
  • Youth
  • Children
  • Devotional
  • I’m New
  • Upcoming Events
  • Fine Arts
  • Location/Contact Us

Standard Site
