       CRASL: Center for Research and Archaeology of the Southern Levant

Home

Underground Jerusalem Heritage Trail - Mapping the Subsurface of the Upper City
                                 of Jerusalem
                             Underground Jerusalem
                                Click for More

  • Home

  • 2015 Season Update

  • Projects

  • Participants

  • Archaeological & Historical Tours

  • Summer Research Opportunities

  • ADASR - Ancient Desert Agriculture Systems Revived

  • Museum of the Southern Levant

  • Contact Us

  • LockBox

  • Support CRASL through PayPal

  Ground Penetrating Radar Field Studies in the Negev - click for slide show
                               GPR Field Studies
                             Click for Slide Show

   ADASR - Ancient Desert Agriculture Systems Revived - click for slide show
                                  ADASR STORY
                             Click for Slide Show

                           In the Wilderness of Zin
                               Wilderness of Zin
                         Click for Avdat Photo Gallery

                         What is Biblical Archaeology?
                               What is Biblical
                                 Archaeology?
                                Dever Explains

           Click Here to download 2015 Summer Tour PDFClick Here to
                                      download 2015 Summer Tour PDF
                                               2015 Summer Tour PDF

                              Mission Statement

     Click here for Dr. Jessie's
           2015 Season Update
       Dr. Jessie's 2015 Season Update

       CRASL, the Center for Research & Archaeology of the Southern Levant,
       is based in College Station, Texas, and works closely with AHC, the
       Archaeological and Historical Conservancy, Inc. of Florida. CRASL
       was created to manage research and archaeological projects centered
       in Israel and the Southern Levant. It is an approved Non-Profit
       Organization incorporated in the State of Florida, with US 501(c)
       status fully approved by the IRS.

   Summer at Safi - Click for Season Update
       Summer at Safi - Click for Season Update

       CRASL focuses on the rehabilitation of traditional Western culture
       by supporting Israel archaeology and conservation of historic sites.
       CRASL focuses on the use of advanced technology and information
       systems and media to augment the work of Israeli archaeologists and
       researchers.

       CRASL works with Israeli and US travel and tourism professionals to
       support Israeli archaeological and historic studies by US youth,
       young professionals, families, and people of all ages seeking a more
       enriching experience linking their traditional ideals with the sites
       and sounds and life of modern Israel.

       CRASL projects are designed to bring young American professionals
       and researchers to Israel for archaeological field experience and
       co-motion with modern Israelis focused on mutual activities and
       interests. CRASL is about increasing stewardship of sacred and
       historic Israel through shared learning and experiences.

       CRASL's goals are both professional and educational helping to bring
       a new vitality to western traditions, and to build bridges between
       Americans and Israelis.

       As part of our program a living Museum of the Southern Levant brings
       artifacts and antiquities from all our projects in Israel to
       interested viewers in the USA. In both a real and virtual setting we
       share Israel with you both there and here.

       Look over our projects and our tours. Find something that moves you
       and let us take you there!

        Looking back from The Kotel in 2010 - Contrast to the view across
        from the Kotel in the 1800's above - CRASL blends the old with the
                                       new

           Looking back from the Kotel in 2010. Contrast it to the view in
           the picture above looking back from the Kotel at what used to be
               present in the 1800's. CRASL blends the old with the new
             providing a profound connection, and invites you to come and
                         participate in any of our projects.

                                                       Locating Lost IDF
             Revealing Mysteries of the Nea Church           Heroes
                        Click for More                   Click for More

           Mysteries of the Nea Church - click for   Locating Lost IDF
           more                                      Heroes

   Geophysical Support Services, Smart GIS Technology, and website design,
       hosting, and maintenance are provided by Mnemotrix Systems, Inc.
                           Mnemotrix Systems, Inc.


