                           Explaining Hermeneutics:
                                A Commentary on
                The Chicago Statement on Biblical Hermeneutics
                      Articles of Affirmation and Denial

                               Norman L. Geisler

 
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

                                   Article I.

WE AFFIRM that the normative authority of Holy Scripture is the authority of
God Himself, and is attested by Jesus Christ, the Lord of the Church.

WE DENY the legitimacy of separating the authority of Christ from the authority
of Scripture, or of opposing the one to the other.

This first article affirms that the authority of Scripture cannot be separated
from the authority of God. Whatever the Bible affirms, God affirms. And what
the Bible affirms (or denies), it affirms (or denies) with the very authority
of God. Such authority is normative for all believers; it is the canon or rule
of God.

This divine authority of Old Testament Scripture was confirmed by Christ
Himself on numerous occasions (cf. Matt. 5:17-18; Luke 24:44; John 10:34-35).
And what our Lord confirmed as to the divine authority of the Old Testament, He
promised also for the New Tes-tament (John 14:16; 16:13).

The Denial points out that one cannot reject the divine authority of Scripture
without thereby impugning the authority of Christ, who attested Scripture's
divine authority. Thus it is wrong to claim one can accept the full authority
of Christ without acknowledging the complete authority of Scripture.

                                  Article II.

WE AFFIRM that as Christ is God and Man in one Person, so Scripture is,
indivisibly, God' s Word in human language.

WE DENY that the humble, human form of Scrip-ture entails errancy any more than
the humanity of Christ, even in His humiliation, entails sin.

Here an analogy is drawn between Christ and Scripture. Both Christ and
Scripture have dual aspects of divinity and humanity, indivisibly united in one
expression. Both Christ and Scripture were conceived by an act of the Holy
Spirit. Both involve the use of fallible human agents. But both produced a
theanthropic result; one a sinless person and the other an errorless book.
However, like all analogies, there is a difference. Christ is one person
uniting two natures whereas Scripture is one written expression uniting two
au-thors (God and man). This difference notwithstanding, the strength of the
likeness in the analogy points to the inseparable unity between divine and
human dimensions of Scripture so that one aspect cannot be in error while the
other is not.

The Denial is directed at a contemporary tendency to separate the human aspects
of Scripture from the divine and allow for error in the former. By contrast the
framers of this article believe that the human form of Scripture can no more be
found in error than Christ could be found in sin. That is to say, the Word of
God (i.e., the Bible) is as necessarily perfect in its human manifestation as
was the Son of God in His human form.

                                 Article III.

WE AFFIRM that the person and work of Jesus Christ are the central focus of the
entire Bible.

WE DENY that any method of interpretation which rejects or obscures the
Christ-centeredness of Scripture is correct.

This Affirmation follows the teaching of Christ that He is the central theme of
Scripture (Matt. 5:17; Luke 24:27, 44; John 5:39; Heb. 10:7). This is to say
that focus on the person and work of Christ runs throughout the Bible from
Genesis to Revelation. To be sure there are other and tangential topics, but
the person and work of Jesus Christ are central.

In view of the focus of Scripture on Christ, the Denial stresses a
hermeneutical obligation to make this Christocentric message clear in the
expounding of Scripture. As other articles (cf. Article XV) emphasize the
"literal" interpretation of Scripture, this article is no license for
allegorization and unwarranted typology which see Christ portrayed in every
detail of Old Testament proclamation. The article simply points to the
centrality of Christ's mission in the unfolding of God's revelation to man.

Neither is there any thought in this article of making the role of Christ more
ultimate than that of the Father. What is in view here is the focus of
Scripture and not the ultimate source or object of the whole plan of
redemption.

                                  Article IV.

WE AFFIRM that the Holy Spirit who inspired Scripture acts through it today to
work faith in its message.

WE DENY that the Holy Spirit ever teaches to any one anything which is contrary
to the teaching of Scripture.

Here stress is laid on the fact that the Holy Spirit not only is the source of
Scripture, but also works to produce faith in Scripture He has inspired.
Without this ministry of the Holy Spirit, belief in the truth of Scripture
would not occur.

The Denial is directed at those alleged "revelations" which some claim to have
but which are contrary to Scripture. No matter how sincere or genuinely felt,
no dream, vision, or supposed revelation which contradicts Scripture ever comes
from the Holy Spirit. For the utterances of the Holy Spirit are all harmonious
and noncontradictory (see Article XX).

                                  Article V.

WE AFFIRM that the Holy Spirit enables believers to appropriate and apply
Scripture to their lives.

WE DENY that the natural man is able to discern spiritually the biblical
message apart from the Holy Spirit.

The design of this article is to indicate that the ministry of the Holy Spirit
extends beyond the inspiration of Scripture to its very application to the
lives of the believer. Just as no one calls Jesus Lord except by the Holy
Spirit (I Cor. 12:3), so no one can appropriate the message of Scripture to his
life apart from the gracious work of the Holy Spirit.

The Denial stresses the truth that the natural man does not re-ceive the
spiritual message of Scripture. Apart from the work of the Holy Spirit there is
no welcome for its truth in an unregenerate heart.

This does not imply that a non-Christian is unable to understand the meaning of
any Scripture. It means that whatever he may perceive of the message of
Scripture, that without the Holy Spirit's work he will not welcome the message
in his heart.

                                  Article VI.

WE AFFIRM that the Bible expresses God's truth in propositional statements, and
we declare that biblical truth is both objective and absolute. We further
affirm that a statement is true if it represents matters as they actually are,
but is an error if it misrepresents the facts.

WE DENY that, while Scripture is able to make us wise unto salvation, biblical
truth should be defined in terms of this function. We further deny that error
should be defined as that which willfully deceives.

Since hermeneutics is concerned with understanding the truth of Scripture,
attention is directed here to the nature of truth. Several significant
affirmations are made about the nature of truth.

First, in contrast to contemporary relativism it is declared that truth is
absolute. Second, as opposed to subjectivism it is acknowl-edged that truth is
objective. Finally, in opposition to existential and pragmatic views of truth,
this article affirms that truth is what corresponds to reality. This same point
was made in the "Chicago Statement on Inerrancy" (1978) in Article XIII and the
commentary on it.

The Denial makes P evident that views which redefine an error to mean what
"misleads," rather than what is a mistake, must be rejected. This redefinition
of the word "error" is both contrary to Scripture and to common sense. In
Scripture the word error is used of unintentional acts (Lev. 4:2) as well as
intentional ones. Also, in common parlence a statement is in error if it is a
factual mistake, even if there was no intention to mislead anyone by it. So to
suggest that the Bible contains mistakes, but that these are not errors so long
as they do not mislead, is contrary to both Scripture and ordinary usage.

By this subtle redefinition of error to mean only what misleads but not what
misrepresents, some have tried to maintain that the Bible is wholly true (in
that it never misleads) and yet that it may have some mistakes in it. This
position is emphatically rejected by the confessors of this document.

                                 Article VII.

WE AFFIRM that the meaning expressed in each biblical text is single, definite,
and fixed.

WE DENY that the recognition of this single meaning eliminates the variety of
its application.

The Affirmation here is directed at those who claim a "double" or "deeper"
meaning to Scripture than that expressed by the authors. It stresses the unity
and fixity of meaning as opposed to those who find multiple and pliable
meanings. What a passage means is fixed by the author and is not subject to
change by readers. This does not imply that further revelation on the subject
cannot help one come to a fuller understanding, but simply that the meaning
given in a text is not changed because additional truth is revealed
subsequently.

Meaning is also definite in that there are defined limits by virtue of the
author's expressed meaning in the given linguistic form and cultural context.
Meaning is determined by an author; it is discovered by the readers.

The Denial adds the clarification that simply because Scripture has one meaning
does not imply that its messages cannot be applied to a variety of individuals
or situations. While the interpretation is one, the applications can be many.

                                 Article VIII.

WE AFFIRM that the Bible contains teachings and mandates which apply to all
cultural and situational contexts and other mandates which the Bible itself
shows apply only to particular situations.

WE DENY that the distinction between the universal and particular mandates of
Scripture can be determined by cultural and situational factors. We further
deny that universal mandates may ever be treated as culturally or situationally
relative.

In view of the tendency of many to relativize the message of the Bible by
accommodating it to changing cultural situations, this Affirmation proclaims
the universality of biblical teachings. There are commands which transcend all
cultural barriers and are binding on all men everywhere. To be sure, some
biblical injunctions are directed to specific situations, but even these are
normative to the particular situation(s) to which they speak. However, there
are com-mands in Scripture which speak universally to the human situation and
are not bound to particular cultures or situations.

The Denial addresses the basis of the distinction between universal and
particular situations. It denies that the grounds of this distinction are
relative or purely cultural. It further denies the legiti-macy of relativizing
biblical absolutes by reducing them to purely cultural mandates.

The meaning of this article is that whatever the biblical text means is
binding. And what is meant to be universally binding should not be relegated to
particular situations any more than what is meant to apply only to particular
circumstances should be promulgated as universally applicable.

There is an attempt here to strike a balance between command and culture by
recognizing that a command transcends culture, even though it speaks to and is
expressed in a particular culture. Thus while the situation (or circumstances)
may help us to discover the right course of action, the situation never
determines what is right. God's laws are not situationally determined.

                                  Article IX.

WE AFFIRM that the term hermeneutics, which historically signified the rules of
exegesis, may properly be extended to cover all that is involved in the process
of perceiving what the biblical revelation means and how it bears on our lives.

WE DENY that the message of Scripture derives from, or is dictated by, the
interpreter's understanding. Thus we deny that the "horizons" of the biblical
writer and the interpreter may rightly "fuse" in such a way that what the text
communicates to the interpreter is not ultimately controlled by the expressed
meaning of the Scripture.

The primary thrust of this Affirmation is definitional. It desires to clarify
the meaning of the term hermeneutics by indicating that it includes not only
perception of the declared meaning of a text but also an understanding of the
implications that text has for one's life. Thus, hermeneutics is more than
biblical exegesis. It is not only the science that leads forth the meaning of a
passage but also that which enables one (by the Holy Spirit) to understand the
spiritual implica-tions the truth(s) of this passage has for Christian living.

The Denial notes that the meaning of a passage is not derived from or dictated
by the interpreter. Rather, meaning comes from the author who wrote it. Thus
the reader's understanding has no hermeneutically definitive role. Readers must
listen to the meaning of a text and not attempt to legislate it. Of course, the
meaning listened to should be applied to the reader's life. But the need or
desire for specific application should not color the interpretation of a
passage.

                                  Article X.

WE AFFIRM that Scripture communicates God's truth to us verbally through a wide
variety of literary forms.

WE DENY that any of the limits of human language render Scripture inadequate to
convey God's message.

This Affu'mation is a logical literary extension of Article II which
acknowledges the humanity of Scripture. The Bible is God's Word, but it is
written in human words; thus, revelation is "verbal." Reve-lation is
"propositional" (Article 1I) because it expresses certain propositional truth.
Some prefer to call it "sentential" because the truth is expressed in
sentences. Whatever the term--verbal, propositional, or sentential--the Bible
is a human book which uses normal literary forms. These include parables,
satire, irony, hyperbole, metaphor, simile, poetry, and even allegory (e.g.,
Ezek. 16-17).

As an expression in finite, human language, the Bible has certain limitations
in a similar way that Christ as a man had certain limita-tions. This means that
God adapted Himself through human language so that His eternal truth could be
understood by man in a temporal world.

Despite the obvious fact of the limitations of any finite linguistic
expression, the Denial is quick to point out that these limits do not render
Scripture an inadequate means of communicating God's truth. For while there is
a divine adaptation (via language) to human ~nitude there is no accommodation
to human error. Error is not essential to human nature. Christ was human and
yet He did not err. Adam was human before he erred. So simply because the Bible
is written in human language does not mean it must err. In fact, when God uses
human language there is a supernatural guarantee that it will not be in error.

                                  Article XI.

WE AFFIRM that translations of the text of Scripture can communicate knowledge
of God across all temporal and cultural boundaries.

WE DENY that the meaning of biblical texts is so tied to the culture out of
which they came that understanding qf the same meaning in other cultures is
impossible.

Simply because the truth of Scripture was conveyed by God in the original
writings does not mean that it cannot be translated into another language. This
article affirms the translatability of God's truth into other cultures. It
affirms that since truth is transcendent (see Article XX) it is not
culture-bound. Hence the truth of God expressed in a first-century culture is
not limited to that culture. For the nature of truth is not limited to any
particular medium through which it is expressed.

The Denial notes that since meaning is not inextricably tied to a given culture
it can be adequately expressed in another culture. Thus the message of
Scripture need not be relativized by translation. What is expressed can be the
same even though how it is expressed differs.

                                 Article XII.

WE AFFIRM that in the task of translating the Bible and teaching it in the
context of each culture, only those functional equivalents that are faithful to
the content of biblical teaching should be employed.

WE DENY the legitimacy of methods which either are insensitive to the demands
of cross-cultural communication or distort biblical meaning in the process.

Whereas the previous article treated the matter of the translat-ability of
divine truth, this article speaks to the adequacy of transla-tions. Obviously
not every expression in another language will appropriately convey the meaning
of Scripture. In view of this, cau-tion is urged that the translators remain
faithful to the truth of the Scripture being translated by the proper choice of
the words used to translate it.

This article treats the matter of "functional" equivalence. Often there is no
actual or literal equivalence between expressions in one language and a
word-for-word Wanslation into another language. What is expressed (meaning) is
the same but how it is expressed (the words) is different. Hence a different
construction can be used to convey the same meaning.

The Denial urges sensitivity to cultural matters so that the same truth may be
conveyed, even though different terms are being used. Without this awareness
missionary activity can be severely hampered.

                                 Article XIII.

WE AFFIRM that awareness of the literary categories, formal and stylistic, of
the various parts of Scripture is essential for proper exegesis, and hence we
value genre criticism as one of the many disciplines of biblical study.

WE DENY that generic categories which negate historicity may rightly be imposed
on biblical nar-ratives which present themselves as factual.

The awareness of what kind of literature one is interpreting is essential to a
correct understanding of the text. A correct genre judg-ment should be made to
ensure correct understanding. A parable, for example, should not be treated
like a chronicle, nor should poetry be interpreted as though it were a
straightforward narrative. Each pas-sage has its own genre, and the interpreter
should be cognizant of the specific kind of literature it is as he attempts to
interpret it. With-out genre recognition an interpreter can be misled in his
understand-ing of the passage. For example, when the prophet speaks of "trees
clapping their hands" (Isa. 55:12) one could assume a kind of ani-mism unless
he recognized that this is poetry and not prose.

The Denial is directed at an illegitimate use of genre criticism by some who
deny the truth of passages which are presented as factual. Some, for instance,
take Adam to be a myth, whereas in Scripture he is presented as a real person.
Others take Jonah to be an allegory when he is presented as a historical person
and so referred to by Christ (Man. 12:40-42). This Denial is an appropriate and
timely warning not to use genre criticism as a cloak for rejecting the truth of
Scripture.

                                 Article XIV.

WE AFFIRM that the biblical record of events, discourses and sayings, though
presented in a variety of appropriate literary forms, corresponds to historical
fact.

WE DENY that any such event, discourse or saying reported in Scripture was
invented by the biblical writers or by the traditions they incorporated.

This article combines the emphases of Articles VI and XIII. While acknowledging
the legitimacy of literary forms, this article insists that any record of
events presented in Scripture must corre-spond to historical fact. That is, no
reported event, discourse, or saying should be considered imaginary.

The Denial is even more clear than the Affirmation. It stresses that any
discourse, saying, or event reported in Scripture must ac-tually have occurred.
This means that any hermeneutic or form of biblical criticism which claims that
something was invented by the author must be rejected. This does not mean that
a parable must be understood to represent historical facts, since a parable
does not (by its very genre) purport to report an event or saying but simply to
illustrate a point.

                                  Article XV.

WE AFFIRM the necessity of interpreting the Bible according to its literal, or
normal, sense. The literal sense is the grammatical-historical sense, that is,
the meaning which the writer expressed. Interpretation according to the literal
sense will take account of all figures of speech and literary forms found in
the text.

WE DENY the legitimacy of any approach to Scripture that attributes to it
meaning which the literal sense does not support.

The literal sense of Scripture is strongly affirmed here. To be sure the
English word literal carries some problematic connotations with it. Hence the
words normal and grammatical-historical are used to explain what is meant. The
literal sense is also designated by the more descriptive title
grammatical-historical sense. This means the correct interpretation is the one
which discovers the meaning of the text in its grammatical forms and in the
historical, cultural context in which the text is expressed.

The Denial warns against attributing to Scripture any meaning not based in a
hteral understanding, such as mythological or alle-gorical interpretations.
This should not be understood as eliminating typology or designated allegory or
other literary forms which include figures of speech (see Articles X, XIII, and
XIV).

                                 Article XVI.

WE AFFIRM that legitimate critical techniques should be used in determining the
canonical text and its meaning.

WE DENY the legitimacy of allowing any method of biblical criticism to question
the truth or integrity of the writer's expressed meaning, or of any other
scriptural teaching.

Implied here is an approval of legitimate techniques of "lower criticism" or
"textual criticism." It is proper to use critical techniques in order to
discover the true text of Scripture, that is, the one which represents the
original one given by the biblical authors.

Whereas critical. methodology can be used to establish which of the texts are
copies of the inspired original, it is illegitimate to use critical methods to
call into question whether something in the origi-nal text is true. In other
words, proper "lower criticism" is valid but negative "higher criticism" which
rejects truths of Scripture is invalid.

                                 Article XVII.

WE AFFIRM the unity, harmony, and consistency of Scripture and declare that it
is its own best interpreter.

WE DENY that Scripture may be interpreted in such a way as to suggest that one
passage corrects or militates against another. We deny that later writers of
Scripture misinterpreted earlier passages of Scripture when quoting from or
referring to them.

Two points are made in the Affirmation, the unity of Scripture and its
self-interpreting ability. Since the former is treated elsewhere (Article XXI),
we will comment on the latter here. Not only is the Bible always correct in
interpreting itself (see Article XVIII), but it is the "best interpreter" of
itself.

Another point made here is that comparing Scripture with Scrip-ture is an
excellent help to an interpreter. For one passage sheds light on another. Hence
the first commentary the interpreter should consult on a passage is what the
rest of Scripture may say on that text.

The Denial warns against the assumption that an understanding of one passage
can lead the interpreter to reject the teaching of an-other passage. One
passage may help him better comprehend another but it will never contradict
another.

This last part of the Denial is particularly directed to those who believe the
New Testament writers misinterpret the Old Testament, or that they attribute
meaning to an Old Testament text not expressed by the author of that text.
While it is acknowledged that there is sometimes a wide range of application
for a text, this article affirms that the interpretation of a biblical text by
another biblical writer is always within the confines of the meaning of the
first text.

                                Article XVIII.

WE AFFIRM that the Bible's own interpretation of itself is always correct,
never deviating from, but rather elucidating, the single meaning of the
inspired text. The single meaning of a prophet's words includes, but is not
restricted to, the under-standing of those words by the prophet and
nec-essarily involves the intention of God evidenced in the fulfillment of
those words.

WE DENY that the writers of Scripture always understood the full implications
of their own words.

This Affirmation was perhaps the most difficult to word. The first part of the
Affirmation builds on Article VII which declared that Scripture has only one
meaning, and simply adds that whenever the Bible comments on another passage of
Scripture it does so correctly. That is, the Bible never misinterprets itself.
It always correctly under-stands the meaning of the passage it comments on (see
Article XVII). For example, that Paul misinterprets Moses is to say that Paul
erred. This view is emphatically rejected in favor of the inerrancy of all
Scripture.

The problem in the second statement of the Affirmation revolves around whether
God intended more by a passage of Scripture than the human author did. Put in
this way, evangelical scholars are divided on the issue, even though there is
unity on the question of "single meaning." Some believe that this single
meaning may be fuller than the purview of the human author, since God had far
more in view than did the prophet when he wrote it. The wording here is an
attempt to include reference to the fulfillment of a prophecy (of which God was
obviously aware when He inspired it) as part of the single mean-ing which God
and the prophet shared. However, the prophet may not have been conscious of the
full implications of this meaning when he wrote it.

The way around the difficulty was to note that there is only one meaning to a
passage which both God and the prophet affirmed, but that this meaning may not
always be fully "evidenced" until the prophecy is ful~lled. Furthermore, God,
and not necessarily the prophets, was fully aware of the fuller implications
that would be manifested in the fulfillment of this single meaning.

It is important to preserve single meaning without denying that God had more in
mind than the prophet did. A distinction needs to be made, then, between what
God was conscious of concerning an affirmation (which, in view of His
foreknowledge and omniscience, was far more) and what He and the prophet
actually expressed in the passage. The Denial makes this point clear by noting
that biblical authors were not always fully aware of the implications of their
own affirmations.

                                 Article XIX.

WE AFFIRM that any preunderstandings which the interpreter brings to Scripture
should be in harmony with scriptural teaching and subject to correction by it.

WE DENY that Scripture should be required to fit alien preunderstandings,
inconsistent with itself, such as naturalism, evolutionism, scientism, secular
humanism, and relativism.

The question of preunderstanding is a crucial one in contem-porary
hermeneutics. The careful wording of the Affirmation does not discuss the issue
of whether one should approach Scripture with a particular preunderstanding,
but simply which kinds of preunder-standing one has are legitimate. This
question is answered by affirm-ing that only those preunderstandings which are
compatible with the teaching of Scripture are legitimate. In fact, the
statement goes further and demands that all preunderstanding be subject to
"correction" by the teaching of Scripture.

The point of this article is to avoid interpreting Scripture through an alien
grid or filter which obscures or negates its true message. For it acknowledges
that one's preunderstanding will affect his under-standing of a text. Hence to
avoid misinterpreting Scripture one must be careful to examine his own
presuppositions in the light of Scripture.

                                  Article XX.

WE AFFIRM that since God is the author of all truth, all truths, biblical and
extrabiblical, are consistent and cohere, and that the Bible speaks truth when
it touches on matters pertaining to nature, history, or anything else. We
further affirm that in some cases extrabiblical data have value for clarifying
what Scripture teaches, and for prompting correction of faulty interpretations.

WE DENY that extrabiblical views ever disprove the teaching of Scripture or
hold priority over it.

What is in view here is not so much the nature of truth (which is treated in
Article VI), but the consistency and coherence of truth.

This is directed at those views which consider truth paradoxical or
contradictory. This article declares that a proper hermeneutics avoids
contradictions, since God never affirms as true two propositions, one of which
is logically the opposite of the other.

Further, this Affirmation recognizes that not all truth is in the Bible (though
all that is affirmed in the Bible is true). God has revealed Himself in nature
and history as well as in Scripture. How-ever, since God is the ultimate Author
of all truth, there can be no contradiction between truths of Scripture and the
true teachings of science and history.

Although only the Bible is the nonnative and infallible rule for doctrine and
practice, nevertheless what one learns from sources out-side Scripture can
occasion a reexamination and reinterpretation of Scripture. For example, some
have taught the world to be square because the Bible refers to "the four comers
of the earth" (Isa. 11:12). But scientific knowlodge of the spherical nature of
the globe leads to a correction of this faulty interpretation. Other
clarifications of our understanding of the biblical text are possible through
the study of the social sciences.

However, whatever prompting and clarifying of Scripture that extrabiblical
studies may provide, the final authority for what the Bible teaches rests in
the text of Scripture itself and not in anything outside it (except in God
Himself). The Denial makes clear this priority of the teaching of God's
scriptural revelation over anything outside it.

                                 Article XXI.

WE AFFIRM the harmony of special with general revelation and therefore of
biblical teaching with the facts of nature.

WE DENY that any genuine scientific facts are inconsistent with the true
meaning of any passage of Scripture.

This article continues the discussion of the previous article by noting the
harmony of God's general revelation (outside Scripture) and His special
revelation in Scripture. It is acknowledged by all that certain interpretations
of Scripture and some opinions of scientists will contradict each other.
However, it is insisted here that the truth of Scripture and the facts of
science never contradict each other.

"Genuine" science will always be in accord with Scripture. Science, however,
based on naturalistic presuppositions will inevitably come in conflict with the
supernatural truths of Scripture.

Far from denying a healthy interchange between scientific theory and biblical
interpretation, the framers of this statement welcome such. Indeed, it is
acknowledged (in article XX) that the exegete can learn from the scientist.
What is denied is that we should accept scientific views that contradict
Scripture or that they should be given an authority above Scripture.

                                 Article XXII.

WE AFFIRM that Genesis 1-11 is factual, as is the rest of the book.

WE DENY that the teachings of Genesis 1-11 are mythical and that scientific
hypotheses about earth history or the origin of humanity may be invoked to
overthrow what Scripture teaches about creation.

Since the historicity and the scientific accuracy of the early chapters of the
Bible have come under severe attack it is important to apply the "literal"
hermeneutic espoused (Article XV) to this question. The result was a
recognition of the factual nature of the account of the creation of the
universe, all living things, the special creation of man, the Fall, and the
Flood. These accounts are all factual, that is, they are about space-time
events which actually happened as re-ported in the book of Genesis (see Article
XIV).

The article left open the question of the age of the earth on which there is no
unanimity among evangelicals and which was beyond the purview of this
conference. There was, however, complete agreement on denying that Genesis is
mythological or unhistorical. Likewise, the use of the term "creation" was
meant to exclude the belief in macro-evolution, whether of the atheistic or
theistic varieties.

                                Article XXIII.

WE AFFIRM the clarity of Scripture and specifically of its message about
salvation from sin.

WE DENY that all passages of Scripture are equally clear or have equal bearing
on the message of redemption.

Traditionally this teaching is called the "perspicuity" of Scrip-ture. By this
is meant that the central message of Scripture is clear, especially what the
Bible says about salvation from sin.

The Denial disassociates this claim from the belief that every-thing in
Scripture is clear or that all teachings are equally clear or equally relevant
to the Bible's central saving message. It is obvious to any honest interpreter
that the meaning of some passages of Scrip-ture is obscure. It is equally
evident that the truth of some passages is not directly relevant to the overall
plan of salvation.

                                 Article XXIV.

WE AFFIRM that a person is not dependent for understanding of Scripture on the
expertise of biblical scholars.

WE DENY that a person should ignore the fruits of the technical study of
Scripture by biblical scholars.

This article attempts to avoid two extremes. First, it aftinns that one is not
dependent on biblical "experts" for his understanding of the basic truths of
Scripture. Were this not true, then a significant aspect of the priesthood of
all believers would be destroyed. For if the understanding of the laity is
contingent on the teaching of experts, then Protestant interpretive experts
will have replaced the teaching magisterium of Catholic priests with a kind of
teaching magisterium of Protestant scholars.

On the other hand, biblical scholars do play a significant role in the lay
understanding of Scripture. Even the very tools (Bible, dictionaries,
concordances, etc.) used by laypersons to interpret Scrip-ture were produced by
scholars. And when it comes to more technical and precise understanding of
specific Scripture the work of experts is more than helpful. Hence the implied
exhortation in the denial to avail oneself of the fruit of scholarship is well
taken.

                                 Article XXV.

WE AFFIRM that the only type of preaching which sufficiently conveys the divine
revelation and its proper application to life is that which faithfully expounds
the text of Scripture as the Word of God.

WE DENY that the preacher has any message from God apart from the text of
Scripture.

This final article declares that good preaching should be based in good
hermeneutics. The exposition of Scripture is not to be treated in isolation
from the proclamation of Scripture. In preaching the preacher should faithfully
expound the Word of God. Anything short of a correct exposition of God's
written Word is pronounced insufficient.

Indeed, the Denial declares that there is no message from God apart from
Scripture. This was understood not to contradict the fact that there is a
general revelation (affirmed in Article XXI) but simply to note that the only
inspired and infallible writing from which the preacher can and must preach is
the Bible.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

                     Go to Biblical Hermeneutics Home Page


