                                  [Bethsbeat]
 
 

        On a rainy Friday night, one of CCM's faithful groups was in
        town - Acappella. These men where here to entertain and benefit
        Nashville based Mercy Ministries. They ended up waiting about
        30 minutes for people to come because of the rain.

        Entertaining they are! There is a relationship among these guys
        that is deep and evident. They seem to get along very well, and
        blend better then my GE does in high gear.

        Opening group Kenosis travels with them as roadies and opening
        act. This group is four young guys interning for the Acappella
        Company and working on their vocal ability. They lead the
        worship, which was cut short since the concert started late.

        After their first couple of songs, group "elder" and spokesman
        Gary Moyers told the crowd, "By now you know why we are called
        Acappella." He went on to explain their use of back-up vocals
        via tape, "Since some of our songs call for more than four
        voices, and their are only four of us... Just wanted you to
        know up front."

        Moyers, tenor with the group since 1988, and the guys performed
        a cornucopia of styles and songs from their roster. Note worthy
        songs, "Teaching the Truth in Love"  (Gary introduced this song
        by talking about the things Jesus did in his ministry "A man
        saw... for the first time in his life. A man walked... for the
        first time in his life. A man raised from the dead... for the
        first... time... in his life."); "My Lord, My God" and their
        version of "Shut De Do."

        The group also consists of Barry Wilson, lead singer since
        1998, Ken McAlpin, bass with the company since 1996, and one of
        the founding members of Kenosis. (Gary appoligized to those
        sitting in front of Ken for their sitting in the "spit
        section.") The final Acappella member is Kevin Schaffer, the
        group comedian (ask him to do some of his impressions for you -
        you'll love it), i`supper high tenor, leads and "vocal trumpet"
        since 1993. 

        Acappella is keeping up with a full schedule, including more
        dates in the Southeast including Florida, Georgia, and 
        Kentucky. See the CAS calendar pages 12-14 for more
        information.

 

                          Mercy Ministries of America

        Working with troubled youth since 1973, Nancy Alcorn, president
        and founder of Mercy Ministries of America, feels she has
        gained insight into the reasons social problems exist.
         
        "God never intended for us to abuse our bodies with drugs,
        alcohol, illicit sex and extra pounds that destroy our health.
        Yet the problems resulting from these abuses continue to
        increase."

        Since the ministry was founded in 1983, hundreds of unwed
        mothers and troubled young women have come and found
        unconditional love that brings hope, restoration and healing to
        the spirit, soul and body. At present, two homes are located in
        Monroe, LA, and in Nashville, TN.

 
    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                   [links2]
                             Email / Message Board
    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
          [communicat]This page created with Netscape Navigator Gold
                  This page last updated on January 31, 1999.
             Copyright (C) 1997 Christian Activities Publications.
