  • Home
  • About
  • CROSSROAD
  • Psalms and Spiritual Songs
  • Writings
  • [                    ][Search]

Niels Prip's Blog

"Thy statutes have been my songs, in the house of my pilgrimage" Ps 119:54

Feeds:
    Posts
    Comments

Prophetic Mediocrity

March 13, 2012 by nielsprip

Prophetic Mediocrity

Wouldn’t it be nice if when someone spoke a prophetic word in a meeting, the
elders of the church would pause and judge what was said?  Maybe even write
down the “word” to see if it comes to pass. If they were unsure about the word
that was given, that could be the grace given, it would be written down for a
season, to see if it was God or not. And if it proved to not be God, an elder
would stand up and say, “We were not sure if this was God, but now sufficient
time has passed, and we now are confident that it was not God”, or “We are now
confident that it was God”.

Instead, when you hear a “word”, you rejoice because it is a “pleasant word”.
After all, you want a pleasant meeting, not wanting anything in a meeting that
might cause people to not come back to your church. Pleasant “words” are nice,
but if it is not God, and you put God’s name on it, it is vile, something of
human origin. There is a fine line between what is spiritual and what is from
the soul. And that is one thing that the charismatic church has still not
learned in all these years.

I have seen this for over 40 years. I saw it 40 years ago, I saw it along the
way and I even see it today. Do you despise the truth? Are you afraid of it?
Don’t you want to hear from God? You say you do! Don’t you want to know whether
a word is from God or not? All those years I always heard the same lame excuse
“that people are learning to be prophetic, speaking a word, and we are not
opposed to that or opposed to it being a little messy”.

Don’t get me wrong, a mess is alright, if it is cleaned up with accountability
and judgment by the elders. You can’t leave the mess, or it will start to pile
up. It is fine for someone to learn being prophetic, but to do so without
accountability is madness. Without judging what is said, you set them up for
failure, thinking something is from God when it is not from God. You then train
the church to not know the difference. That is what you train them in,
mediocrity. They will never learn to discern what is God or what is from the
flesh. All pleasant things will be assumed to be from God, what peril you are
in!

Hebrew 5:12-14 For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you have need
again for someone to teach you the elementary principles of the oracles of God,
and you have come to need milk and not solid food. For everyone who partakes
only of milk is not accustomed to the word of righteousness, for he is an
infant. But solid food is for the mature, who because of practice have their
senses trained to discern good and evil.

Posted in Uncategorized | 1 Comment >>

Is This The Time To Be Taking Money?

October 23, 2011 by nielsprip

It is an interesting story, the story of Elisha and Naaman the leper. Naaman
reluctantly went and dipped seven times in the Jordan River and was healed
because there was a prophet in Israel. He also realized that there was only one
God, the God of Israel.

When Naaman offered Elisha a gift, Elisha told him “As sure as the Lord lives,
whom I serve, I will not accept a thing”. After Naaman had left, Elisha’s
servant Gehazi went after Naaman and lied to him in order to get a gift of
silver and clothes. When Gehazi returned, Elisha confronted him because in his
spirit he knew what Gehazi had done. It did not fare well for Gehazi when
Elisha asked him in 2 Kings 5:26-27 “Is it a time to take money and to receive
clothes and olive groves and vineyards and sheep and oxen and male and female
servants? Therefore, the leprosy of Naaman shall cling to you and to your
descendants forever.” So he went out from his presence, a leper as white as
snow”.

The story speaks for it self, Carl Keil, a German theologian in the 1800’s says
this in his commentary on II Kings-

“Was this the time, when so many hypocrites pretend to be prophets from
selfishness and avarice, and bring the prophetic office into contempt with
unbelievers, for a servant of the Lord to take money and goods …that he might
acquire luxury and goods for himself.

What a rebuke! A rebuke our so-called modern prophets should heed with all
their marketing strategies, their endless books, DVD’s, expensive conferences
and material. Well did Micah tell of their error! Micah 3:11 “Her leaders
pronounce judgment for a bribe, her priests instruct for a price. And her
prophets divine for money. Yet they lean on the LORD saying, is not the LORD in
our midst? Calamity will not come upon us.” It is a stark realization that
today’s so-called prophets have many followers, and there is pride in the fact
that they claim that the Lord is in their meetings and in their “words”. Micah
clearly rebukes them and exposes their error. In like manner, our modern
prophetic movement needs rebuking!

The world is in dire times, economic collapses, rising unemployment and
homelessness, more and more people are hurting. We live in a world where people
need Jesus, the need the true Gospel. Where will they hear it? Will we bring
them into a church that is wrought with error and mixture? Where are the true
prophets of God? Is this the time to for making money? There are several
instances in the Bible where some of the greatest prophets rejected money.
Where are they now? These days it’s almost always all about the money.

My encouragement is this, hold those accountable who claim to speak for God.
 If their “words” do not come to pass, confront them! If they do not line up
with scripture, confront them. Speak to your leaders about this. We only do a
disservice to God and the body of Christ if we do not do so! Discernment is a
gift of the Spirit; and we are encouraged to seek greater gifts. If you only
speak in tongues, seek interpretation that all may benefit, if you have
interpretation, seek discernment, if you have discernment, use that gift; if
you have discernment, continue to desire the greater gifts.

Posted in Uncategorized | 1 Comment >>

Modern Day Money Changers by David Ravenhill

September 21, 2011 by nielsprip

Modern Day Money Changers

I’m convinced that the carnal, cunning, conniving, crooked crooks that Jesus
drove out of the Temple are still among us today. These modern day
moneychangers are forever devising new and deceptive doctrines to defraud God’s
people out of His/their money. These masters of deceit have now set up their
changing tables throughout the Christian television industry.

I’m absolutely certain that if Jesus returned today He would walk into the vast
majority of these television studios and overthrow the cameras, lights,
monitors, and soundboards. He would unplug the microphones and scatter the
makeup colors around as He went about destroying the stages and backdrops.

Several years ago now, a nationally know prophetic voice was told by the Lord,
“I’m sick and tired of the prosperity message”. If that was true then, how much
more today. As far back as 1986, the top seven media evangelists took in over
750 million dollars. Now with the increased manipulation of ‘seed faith
teaching’ that amount has no doubt been dwarfed by comparison.

Only a few days ago I was appalled as I watched and listened as Pastor
Steve__________ zealously twisted and distorted the Scriptures to his own
advantage. This ‘brother’ dared to distort the most sacred truth of all
Scripture. He used The Day Of Atonement, that day when Jesus Christ the Lamb of
God shed His blood for the sins of the world, to teach that how we give
financially determines how God will respond to us throughout the coming year.
My blood boiled as I listened. This ‘brother’ had finally crossed the line and
was now on the verge of blaspheming the atoning work of our blessed Lord and
Savior Jesus Christ, not to mention lining his own pockets with the proceeds.
He might as well have been selling indulgences by inferring that God’s favor
toward us was based on our giving rather than God’s unmerited grace and
forgiveness through the gift of His Son. What made matters worse was that this
same ‘charlatan’ was the guest of one of the nation’s best known charismatic
personalities. Within a day or so he was teaching the same message on a local
Christian telethon. Neither the evangelist nor the network sought to correct
his aberrant teaching – after all, the show must go on and that takes money, so
how you raise it doesn’t seem to matter anymore.

Why does almost every single Christian program have to end with some type of
‘seed faith teaching’? If these men and women of faith really believed what
they taught, they would practice what they preach and teach; after all what’s
good for the goose is good for the gander. Imagine how shocked you would be if
your favorite televangelist and covenant partner were to send you a check in
their next mailing for the amount of $1,000.00 with a personal note telling you
he/she just wanted to sow into your life. Perhaps then I could believe that
these men/women really believe and practice what they teach. Not only that, but
they would never have to appeal for money again as God’s return to them would
result in a hundredfold increase. At least that’s what they would have us to
believe.

On a recent ministry trip to the Northwest, I was told by a pastor friend that
his church had received a call from a well known and anointed teacher in the
Body of Christ. The caller was asking them for a contribution towards the
purchase of a jet for their ministry. What a far cry from what the Apostle Paul
taught when he prefaced his teaching on ‘sowing and reaping’ with these words;
“For this is not for the ease of others and for your affliction, but by way of
equality.” (II Cor. 8:13-14) Many pastors measure their success in terms of
numbers –the larger the church the more successful their ministry. Itinerant
ministries, not being able to brag about size, seem to fall for the notion that
having one’s own jet is how success is determined. (Once it was the Rolex
watch) By the way, if you love and appreciate this fine teacher, pray that he
won’t get the desires of his heart – it will only lead to the leanness of his
soul.

This is one man’s attempt to appeal to the Body of Christ. Stop pandering to
these moneychangers. These men and women live like kings while spending your
money to buy mansions and jets for themselves. They dine in the finest
restaurants, wear the latest designer fashions and then have the audacity to
tell you that you can live the same way as long as you give to their ministry.

I opened my Bible the other day to Zechariah’s wonderful prophecy concerning
the first coming of Jesus, our great and glorious King. Listen to his words;
‘Behold your King is coming to you; He is just and endowed with salvation,
humble, and mounted on a donkey, even on a colt the foal of a donkey.’(
Zechariah 9:9 ) What a far cry from the televangelist who comes high and mighty
and traveling on his own jet!

If you are as sick and tired as I am about this waste of God’s money, then for
heaven’s sake STOP SUPPORTING THESE PEOPLE. Give your money to your local
church. There are tens of thousands of needy missionaries who barely have
enough support to keep themselves alive. They are laboring long and hard under
some of the most difficult and trying conditions. They would rejoice at the
thought of an extra $10-30 dollars a month support. These are the real heroes
of whom the world is not worthy. Help put these MONEY LOVING TELEVANGELISTS OUT
OF BUSINESS and SAVE ANOTHER MISSIONARY FROM EXTINCTION.

Together we can make it happen. Please forward this to as many people as you
know.
Thanks.

David Ravenhill

Posted in Uncategorized | Tagged David Ravenhill, Davidravenhill, Niels Prip |
Leave a Comment >>

The Peril of Prophetic Mixture

March 19, 2011 by nielsprip

A look at 1 Kings 13 gives us very disturbing look at the way prophetic mixture
can function. It is interesting to note, that it is those who listen to and
take heed to prophetic people who function this way, are the ones who will
suffer the most harm. The young prophet certainly erred in listening to the old
prophet and sinned by not obeying what God had told him to do, it cost him his
life. But what was it about the old prophet that convinced the younger to err?

 

Well, it says that the old prophet lied to the young prophet. He was also
empathetic to the younger because he recognized the prophetic calling, since he
too was a prophet. Not only that, but we see from the story that the old
prophet did hear from God as well, pronouncing God’s judgment on the younger
for his disobedience. This is a classic example of “mixture”. Mixture is
functioning by your own spirit, soul or desires, and being able at times to
also function by the Holy Spirit. Prophets who function this way have a divided
heart towards the Lord. There is usually a mixture of motives as well, a pure
motive toward God and His word would not allow for this “mixture”.

We now live in a day where prophetic mixture is heartily embraced, where the
making of money is now the central part of most prophetic ministries. We see
men forsaking their wives and children for other women, and then with their new
wives, continuing on in the ministry like nothing happened. Some of these
ministers have even been caught in sexual and  even in homosexual sin. Most of
these men are still in the ministry, and are widely accepted.

The most disturbing thing of all is that many people still heartily continue to
embrace them. Why? Well there are many reasons, to name a few; there is a lack
of discernment and a lack of common sense. In many circles there is a lack of
leadership, a lack of Biblical instruction. There is new emphasis being put on
the prophetic, and on signs and wonders. There is a new emphasis on having a
“desperation” for God; and a “desperation” for God is a good thing, as long as
we are also “desperate” for truth, purity, virtue and holiness. Unfortunately,
“desperation” can cause us to give up on discernment and common sense, and lead
us to error.

There are many today, who would gladly follow the old prophet from our story,
claiming all the way that “He heard from God”, not caring that he was a liar. 
We can be so “desperate” for God that we don’t care about a person’s character
or personal life, as long as he gives us a word. A recent case is the minister
who had an affair with a staff member. He divorced his wife and abandoned his
responsibility to his children. He has supposedly repented, and been restored
to the ministry, with his new wife at his side, all because everyone thinks
that he has some special anointing from God. If you choose to follow such a
man, you will open yourself up to the same lack of character. One day, when
life is hard, as you try to be a good husband and father, some pretty little
girl will come along and temp you, and you also will be able to justify leaving
your wife and family too. Because you will have learned that from someone
operating in prophetic mixture.

Maybe God’s slaying of the young prophet was a mercy. If God did nothing, the
younger prophet would have learned that character didn’t really matter, that
obedience didn’t matter. That is was OK to lie occasionally like the old
prophet. That it was OK to function apart from the Spirit, to function out of
one’s soul or desire.

There has been much grace given to the prophetic movement over the years, all
in the name of allowing men and women to learn to function in the gift. But
because of the lack of discernment, we have embraced mediocrity. We have
embraced prophetic mixture!

to be continued…

Posted in False Prophets, Prophetic Mixture | 1 Comment >>

Old Testament not for today! A disturbing teaching!

February 27, 2011 by nielsprip

Old Testament not for today! A disturbing teaching!

I have recently heard Bill Johnson say that the Old Testament was for the
people then, and that the New Testament is for us now. He used the verse in Heb
1:1 “God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spoke in time past unto the
fathers by the prophets,

Has in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir
of all things, by whom also he made the worlds…”.  Bill Johnson then said that
“the Old Testament anointing was for them and the New Testament anointing is
for us.

Why would we even need to make that distinction? We all know that Jesus existed
before the foundation of the world, and that all things were created by Him and
for Him. Whether OT or NT, it is this same Jesus, working by His same Spirit,
all in all. Maybe some people don’t know that.

The New Testament was not created until about 350 years after Christ. Why
anyone would dismiss the Old Testament shows a lack of understanding of the
Word and Jesus. Paul himself says in 2 Tim 3:16 “All Scripture is God-breathed
and is useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting and training in righteousness,
so that the man of God may be thoroughly equipped for every good work”.

What was Paul referring to? He was referring to the Old Testament. Who should
we listen to? The Apostle Paul or Bill Johnson?

Paul warns in 2 Timothy 4:3 “For the time will come when men will not put up
with sound doctrine. Instead, to suit their own desires, they will gather
around them a great number of teachers to say what their itching ears want to
hear”.

In these last days, the days that we now live in, we have been warned that
unsound doctrine will abound. The warning is for us Christians, not the world.
Let us test everything against the Bible, it is our only hope.

Niels

Posted in Uncategorized | 1 Comment >>

Great Article By David Ravenhill

November 30, 2010 by nielsprip

HELPING TO SHAPE A BIBLICAL PERSPECTIVE

DAVID RAVENHILL

RESTORATION OR CONVERSION?

I recently watched a uTube video of a young man being ‘restored’ to ministry
after having fallen morally. The young man, along with his new ‘wife’ were
surrounded by a dozen or so friends and leaders who were all there to release
him back into ministry. Several prophetic words were spoken over them to the
effect that they were going to be an example of integrity to the Body of Christ
around the world. etc.

This young man had told his first wife that God had told him he was to marry
her. Now after a couple or more children he had left her and fallen for one of
his younger team members. Within weeks of his divorce he was remarried and was
shortly thereafter released to minister again.

Let me state emphatically that I am not against restoration. The prodigal
returned home to be given the Father’s kiss of welcome, the first robe, the
ring of authority and the sandals for his feet. Heaven erupted into joy at his
return and celebrated the day with music, dancing and feasting.

While in Europe recently I was pondering over some of these ‘quick’
restorations. I found myself comparing two similar and yet very different
words, restoration and conversion. Are we as the body of Christ truly restoring
our fallen or are we simply converting them?

Suppose I fall in love with an old car and decide to restore it. Let’s say it’s
a 1948 Chevy. After numerous months of work I finally complete the project.
Everywhere I take the car people immediately recognize it because it has been
restored to its original condition. Now let’s say I lower the car several
inches and replace the rear wheels with tires 12 inches wide. I then remove the
entire roof and shorten the overall length making what was once a four door
into a two door. Finally I remove the hood and install an oversized engine.
Nobody in their right mind would say I had restored the car but they would all
agree that it was converted from its original design into what would now be
considered a hotrod.

To restore means to bring something back to its original condition to convert
means to change something into something entirely different. Thank God for the
miracle of conversion whereby we are changed and transformed by the grace of
God into God’s new creation.

Are these cases of restoration really what God had in mind when we were told
“You that are spiritual restore such a one?” William Barclay is considered by
many to be one of the finest expositors when it comes to the etymology of Greek
and Hebrew words. Here is what he writes concerning katarizein the Greek word
Paul used for restore in Gal. 6:1

In classical Greek it has a wide variety of meanings, all of which can be
gathered together under one or other of two heads. (i) It means ‘to adjust, to
put in order, to restore’. Hence it is used to pacify a city which is torn by
faction; of setting a limb that has been dislocated; of developing certain
parts of the body by exercise; of restoring a person to his rightful mind; of
reconciling friends who have become estrange. (ii) It is used of equipping or
fully furnishing someone or something for some given purpose. Now when we take
this and apply it to Christian discipline certain most significant things
emerge. (i) It is clear that Christian discipline is never meant to be merely
retributory punishment; it is not simply vengeance on the evil-doer. (ii)
Discipline is meant to ‘mend’ a man and to ‘repair’ him. It regards him more as
something which has been damaged or injured than it does a deliberate sinner.
(iii)Discipline is meant to ‘equip’ him better to meet his temptations and to
meet the battle and the demands of life. It regards him as a man ill and
inadequately equipped and it regards the duty of the Christian society as being
that of sending him out better able to deal with the things which defeated him.

In the case of the young man there is little question as to whether his
marriage was restored – it wasn’t. As to whether his home was restored –just
ask his children. It seems the only thing that was restored was his ‘ministry’.
But that begs the question, is he now Biblically qualified to teach and preach?
According to God’s word an Elder must be above reproach, the husband of one
wife, having children in subjection, etc. Paul also declares that if a man
doesn’t provide for his own he is worse than an infidel. This was clearly not
the case here or in most cases for that matter. When we carelessly sidestep
these requirements we send a clear message to the world that we value results
more than integrity and calling more than character.

Isn’t it time we started restoring those who have fallen rather than converting
them?

Posted in Uncategorized | Tagged David Ravenhill | Leave a Comment >>

How Shall We Pray?

March 8, 2010 by nielsprip

How Shall We Pray?

I have been hearing a certain teaching on prayer for many years now, and
recently, I heard it again. It basically goes like this, a preacher or teacher
will make a point of telling you that he prays in tongues for several hours a
day. He will then tell you that this is what we all need to do, and that it is
a more powerful and better way to pray. Also he will tell us how great it is
because then the devil doesn’t know what we are praying, like there is some
advantage to that.

Where does this teaching come from? Well, I am sure that it comes from their
experience and the charismatic doctrine that they have embraced and have been
taught.
If you are in a charismatic church, you will tend to believe this teaching as
well. You will have been taught that everyone should pray in tongues, with no
exception, and that it is better.

But what do the scriptures say about prayer? Well, in James 5:16 it says this,
“…The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much”. Interesting
to note that there is no mention of “tongues”. If I were to paraphrase in it my
own words, I would say that if a man is righteous, and he prays fervently, he
has power with God. It really doesn’t matter if he prays in a tongue or whether
the devils know what he is praying or not. I can find no where in scripture to
refute that fact. Why do we want to add some new formula? God makes it clear in
the scriptures as to what is important, being righteous and praying fervently.

Historically, there have been many men of God who have done mighty things and
not embraced charismatic teachings. People used to say this about A. W. Tozer,
“…just think of how great his works would be if he was filled with the Spirit”.
I have heard with my own ears that comment made about Billy Graham. What
nonsense! This teaching gives us the sense that we are better than these men.
Clearly that is an error we can not afford.

We are to embrace sound teaching, supported by the scriptures. We are to be
Bereans, as in Acts 17:11 “Now the Bereans were of more noble character than
the Thessalonians, for they received the message with great eagerness and
examined the Scriptures every day to see if what Paul said was true”. We are to
examine the scriptures to see if the things we are being taught is true. This
is the call to the men of the church. The Bereans even examined the things they
were being told by Paul, should we be less diligent?

The truth is this “The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth
much”, in any language. Scripture supports this, and this alone.

Also see-

Proverbs 8:17

Hebrews 11:6

Posted in 1 | 1 Comment >>

                                Older Posts >>

  • Archives

      □ March 2012 (1)
      □ October 2011 (1)
      □ September 2011 (1)
      □ March 2011 (1)
      □ February 2011 (1)
      □ November 2010 (1)
      □ March 2010 (1)
      □ January 2010 (1)
      □ September 2009 (1)
      □ August 2009 (1)
      □ July 2009 (1)
  • Categories

      □ 1 (4)
      □ False Prophets (1)
      □ Prophetic Mixture (1)
      □ Worship in Cirisis (2)
      □ Worship, Praise and Music (2)
  • Pages

      □ About
      □ CROSSROAD
      □ Psalms and Spiritual Songs
      □ Writings
          ☆ Modern Day Money Changers by David Ravenhill
  • Blogroll

      □ WordPress.com
      □ WordPress.org
  • Meta

      □ Register
      □ Log in
      □ Valid XHTML
      □ XFN
      □ WordPress

Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.

The MistyLook Theme.


Niels Prip's Blog
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. The MistyLook Theme.
Follow

Follow “Niels Prip's Blog”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
