Content on this page requires a newer version of Adobe Flash Player.

Get Adobe Flash player


            Preaching the Gospel - Preparing a People...Home Page 
                     United Church of God - British Isles

[ucglogo]About the United Church of God

The mission of the Church of God is to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ and
the Kingdom of God in all the world, make disciples in all nations and care for
those disciples. Who We Are: The literature on this site is published by the
United Church of God, an International Association, which has ministers and
local congregations in the United Kingdom and many countries around the world.
We trace our origins to the Church that Jesus founded in the early first
century. We follow the same teachings, doctrines and practices established
then. Our commission is to proclaim the gospel of the coming Kingdom of God to
all the world as a witness and teach all nations to observe what Christ
commanded (Matthew:24:14; 28:19, 20).

[gncreation]The Good News Subscription – FREE
Other magazines provide information, but not answers. They don't address the
really important questions: Why are we here? What is our purpose in life? Where
are we going? What lies ahead for our families, loved ones and friends?
[bible-study-c]Bible Study Course
Why are we here? Where is the world headed? What does the future hold? Our eye-
opening 12-lesson Bible Study Course will make the Bible come alive as it leads
you through the biblical answers to these and other questions! Access the FREE
Bible Study lessons online.
[emvideo-youtube-VENX]Television Videos – click screen to view
The Beyond Today television programme offers practical ways to help improve
your life today while pointing to a bright hope for you, your family and all
humanity tomorrow.

    
Free of Charge:
Jesus Christ said, "Freely you have received, freely give" (Matthew:10:8). The
United Church of God offers the publications on this site (and by mail) free of
charge. We are grateful for the generous tithes and offerings of the members of
the Church and other supporters, who voluntarily contribute to support this
work. We do not solicit the general public for funds. However, contributions to
help us share this message of hope with others are welcomed. All funds are
audited annually by an independent accounting firm.

The Good News    Publications   Multimedia and Videos  Resources  Youth  About
Us  Contact Us  Virtual Christian Magazine
Good News British Supplement   Bible Study Course   Vertical Thought   United
News  World News and Prophecy
Ambassador Bible Centre  Beyond Today TV   Good New Radio   United Youth Camps 
British Isles Summer Camp  Feast Days
Fundamental Beliefs   Local Congregations  International Offices  Council of
Elders  UCG BI Sermons  Request Literature

Site Map

 

 

 

Submit ExpressSearch Engine Marketing

 

