  • Home
  • At St Johns
      □ Service times
      □ Diary dates
      □ We don't bite!
      □ Our Letters
      □ Magazine
      □ Newsletter
      □ Mission Action Plan
      □ Contact us
  • We believe
      □ Our Letters
      □ Our Sermons
      □ Magazine
      □ Mission Action Plan
  • Activities
      □ Diary dates
      □ Music
  • For children
      □ Little Gems
      □ Junior Church
      □ Youth Group
      □ Safeguarding
  • Finding us
      □ Area map
      □ Public transport
      □ Parish boundary
  • About & Contact
      □ Contact us
      □ Parish Giving
      □ Fund raise
      □ Mission Action Plan
      □ We support
      □ Annual Meeting
      □ History
      □ Church of England
      □ Forms etc
      □ Safeguarding
      □ Privacy

Welcome to St John's Church, Harpenden

The Church on the Common

Welcome to St John's Church - Click to see a mapWe at St John's, Harpenden
welcome you to our web site.  We are a lively, friendly, Anglican church set on
the edge of the Common in the south of Harpenden.

Our Vision Statement: Our vision for St John's is to develop our vibrant
all-age worshipping community, growing spiritually, broadening our pastoral
care and living out our faith in Jesus Christ in all we do.
Our ministry team and congregation form a community of people who come together
regularly to worship, pray, study and pursue a wide range of church based and
social activities.

Our main service is at 9:30 am each Sunday.  On the first Sunday of the month
we hold an All Age Eucharist (see the For Children page).St John's is like
every where else - no one will sit in the front row!  On remaining Sundays we
have Parish Communion and run a Junior Church and Little Gems (for under 4s).

Our mission statement: St John's is a welcoming Christian community, nourished
and transformed by reverent and relaxed worship, inspired to live and share
God's love.
We place particular emphasis on nurturing young people; our Junior Church
divide into groups on the basis of age, with up to 50 children attending on a
Sunday.

We publish a Parish Magazine 4 times a year; this is distributed to all
households in the Parish and can also be collected from St John's.  We also
publish an electronic newsletter approximately monthly.

To see where we are, use use our maps or click the picture of the church.

Junior Church made this banner at their Easter workshop - it was used as Altar
cloth for all our Easter day services

If you are thinking of visiting us for the first time, we have a guide ('we
don't bite!').

Our Christmas 2015 edition of the Parish Magazine is now available.

Our December 2015 e-newsletter is now available

Our Parish Office is open 10am to 2pm Monday to Friday.

Please
-- Read the message from our Stewardship Committee
-- Help our fund raising by using easyfundraising when shopping online.

          easyfundraising.org.ukWe've raised over -L-2,222 this way.

 
Verse of the Day


Living God's Love
Living God, draw us deeper into your love; Jesus our Lord, send us to care and
serve; Holy Spirit, make us heralds of good news.
Stir us, strengthen us, teach and inspire us to live your love with generosity
and joy,imagination and courage;
for the sake of your world and in the name of Jesus, Amen.       Learn more at
the Living God's Love web site.

St John's Church PCC [Registered with the Charity Commissioners for England and
                               Wales (1131603)]
                             (C) 2003-2015 | Email

