  • Home
  • Members Area
  • Our Calendar
  • Chrysalis
  • Community Locator
  • Camp Tygart


The Walk to Emmaus is an Upper Room program for the development of Christian
leaders. It is a three day experience which takes a New Testament look at
Christianity as a lifestyle and is open to all denominations. Learn more about
the Walk to Emmaus at the Upper Room Emmaus Site.

The South Georgia Walk to Emmaus (SGWTE) community sponsors 4-5 weekend
retreats (called "walks") a year. The walks are held from Thursday evening thru
Sunday evening at Camp Tygart near Valdosta. Individuals who attend the weekend
retreat for the first time are called "pilgrims". After their weekend, pilgrims
become members of the Emmaus community, and are eligible to sponsor pilgrims
for upcoming weekends and to work as team members on future retreats. Retreats
are conducted in a cloistered environment, and are separated by gender (all
male or all female).

There is also a teenager retreat program (age 15-18) called Chrysalis Flight,
and a program for College-aged pilgrims (age 19-24) called Chrysalis Journey.
More on South Georgia Chrysalis walk dates and rosters can be found in the
South Georgia Chrysalis Web Page.

An ordained spiritual director is present on each walk. There is a standard
agenda for all weekends consisting of a series of talks given by both lay
members and clergy. Each local community tailors unique aspects of their
program, but keeps the same basic agenda. There are no secrets on weekend
retreats, however the agenda is usually shared with the team members only. This
is designed so that pilgrims "participate" in the current event rather than
"anticipating" the coming events.

The South Georgia Walk to Emmaus Community holds monthly gatherings at
supporting churches. The purpose of the gatherings is to fellowship, worship,
share prayer concerns, and plan for upcoming weekend retreats. Members of the
community may bring guests to the gatherings to introduce them to Walk to
Emmaus. The schedule of upcoming Gatherings can be found in the Community
Calendar. The Walk to Emmaus encourages brothers and sisters to hold each other
accountable, and to share each others joys and sorrows, by participating
routinely in small "reunion" groups.


                                   [address]                                   
