
Welcome to Granville Baptist Church

  • Home

Menu Skip to content

  • Home
  • Sunday Bulletin
  • Events
  • Contact Us

churchWe at Granville Baptist Church are Bible-believing, loving and friendly
Christians who desire to live as a caring, mutually encouraging Church family,
and to serve God as the Body of Christ and build up His Kingdom–in Granville,
NY and in all the world.

As American Baptists we participate actively in the Adirondack Association of
the American Baptist Churches of New York State. We also cooperate ecumenically
with other churches in our community through the Mettowee Valley Ecumenical
Council–hosting the annual, community-wide Vacation Bible School, as well as
various other ecumenical programs and worship services throughout the year on a
rotational basis.

Our historic Church building (built in 1882), with its beautiful stained glass
windows and refurbished pipe organ, is located at 23 Quaker St on State Route
149, where 149 changes from being Quaker St. to being Main St., across from
Veterans Park, in “downtown” Granville, which is on the border of Vermont, 25
miles east of Glens Falls, NY. To serve the handicapped, our sanctuary is
equipped with aids for the hearing impaired and is accesssible via a wheelchair
ramp. Handicapped parking is available in front of the Church.

A spacious parking lot is located in back of the Church .

Worship is at 9:30 a.m. every Sunday of the year, with a Coffee Fellowship time
after the service on the second Sunday of each month.

Sunday School classes for ages 4-104 meet during church, from September through
June.

Pastor James (Jim) Peterson is available for spiritual counsel by appointment
and is always available to provide pastoral care in emergencies. Call
518-642-2245.

Church phone number is 518-642-0673. Leave a message anytime.

Pastor Peterson’s email address is: JCPeterson@roadrunner.com

Leave a Reply Cancel Reply

You must be logged in to post a comment.

Search this site

Search for: [Search]
Bible verse of the day

The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it.
John 1:5
DailyVerses.net
Built with WordPress and Presentation Lite
