  •  
    Facebook

  • Login
  • Register
  • Members

Toggle navigation
Heaven Net

  • Home
  • Writings
  • Forums
  • Active Topics
  • Popular Topics
  • Activity Wall
  • Salvation
  • About
  • Search

Home Writings Which church is the right church?

Hold firmly to the truth, encourage by sound doctrine, & refute those who
oppose it.

Which church is the right church?

This is a fair enough questions as there are so many different denominations,
divisions and brands of Christianity that it would be hard to count them all.
In 1 Corinthians 1:12 we see these words.
What I mean is this: One of you says, “I follow Paul”; another, “I follow
Apollos”; another, “I follow Cephas”; still another, “I follow Christ.”

In truth, asking someone what Church they go to is similar to what Paul says
about this. “Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Were you baptized
in the name of Paul?”. So asking which Church is the right Church is like
asking which person is the right person to follow, Paul, Apollos, Cephas, or
Christ.

So what is the answer then? The true Church is the Body of Christ. It is the
Church that Jesus built and is building. Scripture teaches us that there is
only one Church. The Church is made up of many parts, but these parts are not
denominations or a man made organizations.
The bible calls the true Church by these 3 titles.

 1. The Body of Christ
 2. The Bride of Christ
 3. The Church (which means assembly) 

The scriptural description of Church rules out the possibility that any one
denomination is the correct Church. In fact we should avoid anyone that claims
that their Church is the only Church or only right Church, unless it is Jesus
of course. Apart from Christ, all others are deceivers and ignorant of the fact
that that the true Church belongs to Jesus Christ himself.

Matthew 16
“And I tell you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my Church,
and the gates of Hades will not overcome it”.

This scripture shows us clearly that the Church belongs to Jesus. No man has
the right to say my Church or your Church. It is better to be honest and say
‘my organization’ or ‘our denomination’. It is important to make this
distinction as we do not want to deceive people into believing that man’s works
are God’s works. This sort of deception leads men to blaspheme God because
man’s works are destined to fail. Remember that all of man’s works fall short
of God’s glory and we shouldn’t say that something is of God when we know that
it is from man.

Remember the Tower of Babel. They built a big tower so they could make a name
for themselves and they even included God in their plans. Yet God judged them
by dividing them into different languages, so they couldn’t unite again in this
work of iniquity. Perhaps you can now see why there are so many denominations.
Denominations are like the languages of Christianity, and is actually the
result of a curse which is designed to lessen the impact of man’s iniquity
dressed up to look like God’s work. When men are united in iniquity, much evil
can result, so God divides men to lessen the impact. We see this clearly with
all the denominations out there.

Division in any measure, is evidence that something is not right. Can you see
why many denominations build big extravagant buildings and try to make a name
for themselves. It’s just history repeating itself. Man’s carnal nature is
always trying to glorify itself through its own works, and if God judged this
sin before he will certainly do it again. Not all denominations are of course
are guilty of serving themselves more than God, but by reason of their
structure, they require money and time to run and the result is nearly always
the same, they demand that people serve them or prop them up, otherwise they
fall over. Yet our resources are better spent giving directly or helping the
poor and needy and looking after needs that arise from spreading the Kingdom of
God. Denominations by nature even openly compete with other denominations for
members instead of demonstrating the true unity that Christ prayed for in John
17:11

I will remain in the world no longer, but they are still in the world, and I am
coming to you. Holy Father, protect them by the power of your name, the name
you gave me, so that they may be one as we are one.

How does the above scripture compare to the ads you see where Churches compete
to attract members.

Jesus said in John 17:21
that all of them may be one, Father, just as you are in me and I am in you. May
they also be in us so that the world may believe that you have sent me.

The church needs to come out of Babylon and God through his prophets will call
his people out of her. Many Denominations are clear demonstrations of man’s
works claiming to be of God and I believe that God is judging all institutions
and doctrines that bind up his people, so he can liberate the Church, so she
can come under the true government of his Kingdom.

Does this mean that it is wrong to belong to a denomination ?
The answer depends on your motive. Its like saying is it wrong to belong to a
Library. Of course it is not sin to have membership to the local library, but
if you substituted the Library for the Church, then that would clearly be
wrong. So if you think membership to a denomination means you are part of The
Body of Christ or that you are going to Heaven, then you are sadly mistaken and
you need to repent of your sins and turn to serve the Living God. Then and only
then will you belong to the one and only Church, The Bride of Christ.

Here is an important truth that I want you to consider. If you are saved, you
are a member of the Church now, whether or not you go to a Sunday meeting or
not. That is because Jesus Christ’s Church is made up of all true believers
from all peoples. Remember that only people who are saved can belong to the
Body of Christ. If you are a practicing sinner, or if you have no faith, or you
reject God, then you cannot belong to the Church, (unless you turn from your
sins and serve God). Yet these types of people can belong to denominations and
many do. So here we can see a contradiction. Practicing sinners can and do
belong to denominations, but scriptures are quite clear that only the saved
belong to his Church. Perhaps this explains why Jesus will say to many:

Matthew 7:21-22
“Not everyone who says to me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter the kingdom of heaven,
but only the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. Many will say
to me on that day, ‘Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and in your
name drive out demons and in your name perform many miracles?

You may then say, what about the 7 Churches in the Book of Revelation such as
the Corinthian Church for example, doesn’t the Bible mention more than one
Church? On close examination, you will find that these are simply geographical
boundaries of the universal Church. The seven Churches in the Book of
Revelation are seven cities. When it says “To the Church in Ephesus, it is
addressing the members of God’s Church that reside in the geographical
boundaries of the city called Ephesus. These are not denominations or man made
organizations like we see today. They are just simply convenient geographical
locations where fellowship tends to take place by reason of proximity. A
further example of this can be found in Colossians 4:15
Give my greetings to the brothers at Laodicea, and to Nympha and the Church in
her house.

Jesus Christ rules his Church and he has delegated his authority to the
Apostles, Prophets, Elders, Teachers and Preachers. His Church does not belong
to this world, so we do not have to fight and compete like other groups in this
world. Jesus said that if his kingdom was of this world, he would have soldiers
fighting for him. Instead we are here to love and serve and encourage one
another. Our goal is to preach the Kingdom of God to every nation and person.

Of course many think that the Churches history is written in the blood of many.
But I think that it is fair to say that politics, organizations, and
denominations that claim to be the Church or have power over the Church have
done these things. Jesus is the head of the Church, and he certainly has not
asked us to kill in his name. He said himself in John 18:36
“My kingdom is not of this world. If it were, my servants would fight to
prevent my arrest by the Jewish leaders. But now my kingdom is from another
place.”

Also in Matthew 26:51-54 Jesus said:
51 With that, one of Jesus’ companions reached for his sword, drew it out and
struck the servant of the high priest, cutting off his ear. 52 “Put your sword
back in its place,” Jesus said to him, “for all who draw the sword will die by
the sword. 53 Do you think I cannot call on my Father, and he will at once put
at my disposal more than twelve legions of angels? 54 But how then would the
Scriptures be fulfilled that say it must happen in this way?”

Anyone who kills in the name of Jesus is doing exactly what Jesus said not to
do and murders have no place in the Kingdom as written in Revelation 21:8
But the cowardly, the unbelieving, the vile, the murderers, the sexually
immoral, those who practice magic arts, the idolaters and all liars—they will
be consigned to the fiery lake of burning sulfur. This is the second death.”

Instead we should to fight the good fight, and run the race that is prepared
for each one of us. Also, we should never fight against flesh and blood,
instead against evil rules and principalities in high places. Ephesians 6:12
For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers,
against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world and against the
spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms.

Here are a few scriptures that talk about the Church in the true context.

1 Corinthians 1:2
To the Church of God in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus.

Notice here it is talking about the Church of God in the area called Corinth.

Ephesians 1:1
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, To the saints in Ephesus,
the faithful in Christ Jesus.

Paul is addressing the Saints in Ephesus.
You could take out the word Ephesus and put in the name of you town or city to
get the idea.

Romans 16:5
Greet also the Church that meets at their house. Greet my dear friend Epenetus,
who was the first convert to Christ in the province of Asia.

1 Corinthians 16:19
The Churches in the province of Asia send you greetings. Aquila and Priscilla
greet you warmly in the Lord, and so does the Church that meets at their house.

Colossians 4:15
Give my greetings to the brothers at Laodicea, and to Nympha and the Church in
her house.

The last 3 examples show us that a locality can even mean some ones house.
In other words these Churches are the local Church or that part of the
universal Church that resides in a specified locality.

There are only 2 requirements to belonging to a local Church.

 1. You have a right relationship with Jesus Christ
 2. You live or meet in the locality.

 

If you fulfill these 2 requirements then you are a member of that local Church
whether you like it or not.

Here are some more characteristics of the Church.

Ephesians 2:19-22
19 Consequently, you are no longer foreigners and aliens, but fellow citizens
with God’s people and members of God’s household, 
20 built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, with Christ Jesus
himself as the chief cornerstone. 
21 In him the whole building is joined together and rises to become a holy
temple in the Lord. 
22 And in him you too are being built together to become a dwelling in which
God lives by his Spirit.
Here the Church is likened to a Building or Temple that is a holy temple in the
Lord which God lives in by his Spirit.

Acts 2:47
praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people. And the Lord added to
their number daily those who were being saved.

The Lord was adding to his Church daily as much as were being saved. There is
no mention of these people being added because they signed up for membership of
an organization or denomination. Those who were being added were receiving
salvation.

Ephesians 4:4-5
4 There is one body and one Spirit– just as you were called to one hope when
you were called– 
5 one Lord, one faith, one baptism; 
6 one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. 
Here the Church is described as one body.

Revelation 19:7
Let us rejoice and be glad and give him glory! For the wedding of the Lamb has
come, and his bride has made herself ready.

We are shown that eventually the Bride (Church) will be ready to meet the
Bridegroom.
This means that we the Church is not ready yet.
One thing the Church needs today is unity.

Jesus prayed these words in John 17:11
I will remain in the world no longer, but they are still in the world, and I am
coming to you. Holy Father, protect them by the power of your name, the name
you gave me so that they may be one as we are one.

And in John 17:21
that all of them may be one, Father, just as you are in me and I am in you. May
they also be in us so that the world may believe that you have sent me.

These last 2 verses are part of Jesus prayer just before he was betrayed by
Judas. If someone was about to die then the prayer or words that they uttered
would normally be something that was very important to that person. Jesus
prayer was that his people (Church) be one as He and the Father are one.
John 17:21 also shows us that the world would believe that the Father sent him
if the Church was one. It is very hard convincing men of the truth when those
who claim to have that truth are in division. We need to unite under truth.
True unity must be based on truth. If we sacrifice truth to obtain unity then
all we are doing is uniting ignorance, so we look good from the outside but
inside we have division.

I encourage all believers everywhere to see the Church the way God sees her and
to be in unity with all believers. This is God’s will and it really isn’t much
to ask. If you truly love your brothers or sisters you will gladly do this.
It doesn’t matter if the denomination down the road has more people than the
one you go to. We should be working for the Lord which means working together
not competing. Look beyond man’s structure and see God’s structure.
To quote Derek Prince (a teacher of Gods Word) he says “That the Lord must
surely weep when he reads the religious section of the newspaper”.

Here is a perfect example of Men trying to make a name for themselves.
Competition is evident and this does not witness the Kingdom of God to the
world, it is more of a turn off to the world as it appears to be know different
to say the computer industry, where you have a number of companies competing
for the dollar.
If you were to ask 200 people as they walked down the street what they thought
the Church was, most would probably say “which church are you talking about ”
and then they would probably say that it is an organization that holds meetings
on Sunday for religious purposes.

Many people would say this because this is what they have been shown. It is the
image that the Church has given to the world for years.
There are many people today that understand the true concept of Church and this
is because they have looked beyond the works of Man and can see what God is
doing.
We are the Light of the World and I pray that God’s light would shine from his
Church, so the world will see the glory of the Lord and believe.

To conclude I will quote two more verse. You will notice what this verse
describes is quite different from what the world thinks the Church is.

1 Corinthians 12:12
12 The body is a unit, though it is made up of many parts; and though all its
parts are many, they form one body. So it is with Christ. 
13 For we were all baptized by one Spirit into one body whether Jews or Greeks,
slave or free and we were all given the one Spirit to drink. 
14 Now the body is not made up of one part but of many. 
15 If the foot should say, “Because I am not a hand, I do not belong to the
body,” it would not for that reason cease to be part of the body. 
16 And if the ear should say, “Because I am not an eye, I do not belong to the
body,” it would not for that reason cease to be part of the body. 
17 If the whole body were an eye, where would the sense of hearing be? If the
whole body were an ear, where would the sense of smell be? 
18 But in fact God has arranged the parts in the body, every one of them, just
as he wanted them to be. 
19 If they were all one part, where would the body be? 
20 As it is, there are many parts, but one body. 
21 The eye cannot say to the hand, “I don’t need you!” And the head cannot say
to the feet, “I don’t need you!” 
22 On the contrary, those parts of the body that seem to be weaker are
indispensable, 
23 and the parts that we think are less honorable we treat with special honor.
And the parts that are unpresentable are treated with special modesty, 
24 while our presentable parts need no special treatment. But God has combined
the members of the body and has given greater special honor to the parts that
lacked it, 
25 so that there should be no division in the body, but that its parts should
have equal concern for each other. 
26 If one part suffers, every part suffers with it; if one part is honored,
every part rejoices with it. 
27 Now you are the body of Christ, and each one of you is a part of it. 
28 And in the Church God has appointed first of all apostles, second prophets,
third teachers, then workers of miracles, also those having gifts of healing,
those able to help others, those with gifts of administration, and those
speaking in different kinds of tongues.

This scripture shows us the following:

  □ There are many parts to the Body of Christ.
  □ God, not man has arranged the parts of his Body to the positions he wants.
  □ There should be no division in the Church.

 

The word translated Church probably derived from the Greek kuriakon (i.e., “the
Lord’s house”), which was used by ancient authors for the place of worship. In
the New Testament it is the translation of the Greek word ecclesia, which is
synonymous with the Hebrew kahal of the Old Testament, both words meaning
simply an assembly.

Finally I will sum up by quoting In Psalms 127:1.
Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it.

We do not have the right to build a Church. We should only labour for the
Church that Jesus built which is called the Body of Christ. Why not be a member
of the true Church and shun all counterfeits. Also, it is time to realise that
we do not go to Church, rather we are the Church.

Well congratulations on reading this letter thus far. Unless you skipped to
this section.
You are most probably someone who searches out the truth.
May God bless you abundantly as you seek him.

Print Friendly Version of this pagePrint Get a PDF version of this webpagePDF
Share this
5 likes      

This topic contains 20 replies, has 5 voices, and was last updated by Profile
photo of Wakeup Wakeup 1 year, 5 months ago.

  • Author
    Posts
  • July 29, 2013 at 7:32 am #782374
    [152d63b6] jl torres
      □ Topics started
      □ Total replies

    Wonderful website! I absolutely agree with your assertion that the true
    church needs to be of Christ and Christ alone. God the Father is the one
    and only God that man should know. Jesus explicitly said in His prayer
    ‘this is the everlasting life, that they may know You(the Father), the only
    true God.(John 17:3). Trinity and Christ-is-God doctrines are invented
    dogmas of the apostate church as prophesied by Christ and the apostles.

    August 20, 2013 at 7:15 am #782375
    [4c35bd7b] Pat McHenry
      □ Topics started
      □ Total replies

    Jesus also answered His disciples, that they could “see” (witness) the
    Father by seeing the Son, because the Son does the Will of His Father. The
    uniqueness of the Life of Jesus – He remained faithful to the end of His
    life- is the Glory of God and His Will, and our inspiration to know how to
    act and think in this world. Jesus said He was sent of God, His Father, so
    the early church considered Him to be of God and divine and meriting a
    place alongside God in the Heavens, as the Son, the perfect image of God,
    the True and Faithful. How else can we say it, but that Jesus was both Man
    and God?

    August 20, 2013 at 7:45 am #782376
    Profile photo of Admin Admin 
    Keymaster
      □ Topics started 76
      □ Total replies 1212

    @ Pat McHenry

    How else can we say it?
    That Jesus is both son of man and son of God.

    September 22, 2013 at 2:22 am #782377
    [a4e64b3d] paul
      □ Topics started
      □ Total replies

    The Spirit of the Truth and plain Reason, the Spirit hidden in the Word, is
    being heard in the wilderness. By and through whom is He reaching us?
    Because it is not from the flesh that it is coming. Paul

    September 26, 2013 at 8:49 am #782378
    [a4e64b3d] paul
      □ Topics started
      □ Total replies

    This is the way to put it more strictly :

    Son of man (or should we, as men, say ‘of woman!?’, because he was not
    begotten by a man) according to flesh but Son of God according to Spirit
    (His Spirit, i. e., dwelling in that flesh). And, as to the former, he WAS
    (to be more accurate) but is no longer such because He is no longer in that
    flesh, nor does that flesh exist anymore. Paul

    January 18, 2014 at 4:05 pm #782379
    Profile photo of Tigerseye Tigerseye2 
    Member
      □ Topics started 0
      □ Total replies 2

    Yes I fully agree with you.As hard times draw near it is time to draw to
    God through Jesus.I have been really thinking of all this.Tithing to the
    church.The building grows bigger not the saved in some cases.I often wonder
    why our tithes go to building when hungry people are outside.they run a
    charity shop.Send all the money half way round the world.So many struggling
    on our doorstep.Oh lord help me to get in line and open my eyes father.

    March 2, 2014 at 11:22 pm #782380
    [5084d3ca] pat vonckx
      □ Topics started
      □ Total replies

    are we saved by grace only? or are we to sin all we want, and once saved,
    always saved.I hear this all the time. is this true?

    March 2, 2014 at 11:26 pm #782381
    Profile photo of Admin Admin 
    Keymaster
      □ Topics started 76
      □ Total replies 1212

    Good stuff Kevin. Jesus taught us that when we see people in need, we give
    or help them. He didn’t teach us to tithe. And most money that goes into a
    denomination’s coffers is said to be spent mostly on upkeep of the
    denomination such as mortgage, rent, wages, etc. Best to give when we see
    the need. This is how Jesus taught us to give.

    March 2, 2014 at 11:31 pm #782382
    Profile photo of Admin Admin 
    Keymaster
      □ Topics started 76
      □ Total replies 1212

    We are saved by the grace of God because no amount of repentance will get
    you into Heaven. The soul that sins will die and we have all sinned.
    However, acceptance of the gift of salvation is not just an intellectual
    acceptance of salvation. It requires that you turn your life right around.
    This is how you accept the gift. Repentance means to turn around and go the
    other way.

    March 4, 2014 at 4:11 am #782383
    [f958827e] Anastas
      □ Topics started
      □ Total replies

    You can’t go wrong by giving to the poor you see, but there is also nothing
    wrong with giving to the poor you are not with half way around the world.
    Giving is giving and the poor benefit either way. But why do we cry about
    tithing? Why do we say that the little we give or the 10% is too much?

    Acts 5:32- “And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and
    soul: and not one of them said that aught of the things which he possessed
    was his own; but they had all things common. And with great power gave the
    apostles their witness of the resurrection of the Lord Yehoshua/Jesus: and
    great grace was upon them all. For neither was there among them any that
    lacked: for as many as were possessors of lands or houses sold them, and
    brought the prices of the things that were sold, and laid them at the
    apostles’ feet: and distribution was made unto each, according as any one
    had need.”

    Instead of giving 10%, we should give it all.

    There are dollars to be spent on the poor but, to a degree, spending on a
    house for God is not a bad thing either if you do it to honour Him and to
    glorify Him and do it in faith. Did God not have Solomon build Him a
    glorious house? How many poor do you think that money would have helped?
    But as Christ said “there will always be the poor”. Money spent on the
    glorification of God, whether it be giving to the poor or creating a house
    where brothers can find inspiration and holiness and community, are all
    good things to do if done correctly.

    March 4, 2014 at 6:32 am #782384
    Profile photo of Admin Admin 
    Keymaster
      □ Topics started 76
      □ Total replies 1212

    @ Anastas
    Good post.

    After all, if we can see that people need help on the other side of the
    world, we can still see that need and help just the same as someone you
    have met or know.

    March 19, 2014 at 1:57 am #782385
    [9b0bf5cc] Karl
      □ Topics started
      □ Total replies

    What about the congregations mentioned in the Bible ?
    They received guidence from Jerusalem. Why is that consept no longer valid
    ?

    March 19, 2014 at 3:23 am #782386
    Profile photo of Admin Admin 
    Keymaster
      □ Topics started 76
      □ Total replies 1212

    That concept is valid, but it cannot be used to justify the denominational
    system we see today. The Church congregates together, and one part of the
    Body sows seeds and reaps another part of the body, thus some guidance
    would be in order.

    Could you give scriptures to the particular thing you are talking about,
    and I will read it and give a more contextual answer.

    March 19, 2014 at 1:06 pm #782387
    [9b0bf5cc] k2
      □ Topics started
      □ Total replies

    Thank you for answer. Acts. chapter 15 describes a body of elders and
    apostles in Jerusalem (v.4). Their decision in the actual matter, and
    others is later on distributed to the congregations (v.20;28-29). The
    result was growt Acts. 16:4-5.
    So the question is, how does God organize the worsip of him today ? Is it
    possible to see the preaching work described in Mat.24:14 and 28:19-20 in
    the same context, as organized work by congregations ? If it should be done
    the same way as Jesus did it, (Luke 4:43) how is it organized or done ? Due
    to Jesus commandmends (Mat.28:19-20) I am sure it should be done. I guess
    true worshippers (John.4:23-24) in biblical time was described in Acts. 15.
    Where are they today ?
    http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Acts%2015&version=ASV
    For me I am a little confused these days. I used to think I knew. Nowdays I
    am searching.
    I am impressed over the way scriptuer is applied on this site (so far I’ve
    just looked at the article “is Jesus God” and a article about hell.)

    March 20, 2014 at 4:29 pm #782388
    Profile photo of  Anonymous
      □ Topics started 0
      □ Total replies 59

    hi

    was not Peter in Jerusalem teaching Christ to the Jews while Paul outside
    of Israel went to the preaching Christ to the gentiles ??? yes

    the understanding was in Jerusalem was a body that was looking after the
    interest of the teachings to the Jews and Paul being also a Jew understood
    things by God’s will and so shared it with those in charge for the Jews in
    Jerusalem ,it is clear that both were looking for truth in teaching not
    personal gains

  • Author
    Posts

Viewing 15 posts - 1 through 15 (of 20 total)
1 2 →

You must be logged in to reply to this topic.

Recent Active Members

Profile picture of GeneBalthrop
Profile picture of Ed J
Profile picture of kerwin
Profile picture of NickHassan
Profile picture of princess
Profile picture of miia
Profile picture of Avy.4
Profile picture of t8
Profile picture of 942767
Profile picture of Admin
Profile picture of AndrewAD
Profile picture of seekingtruth
[INS::INS]

Recent Replies

  • Profile photo of GeneBalthrop GeneBalthrop on Myth of free will
    11 minutes ago
  • Profile photo of Ed J Ed J on Myth of free will
    1 hour, 5 minutes ago
  • Profile photo of kerwin kerwin on Myth of free will
    1 hour, 8 minutes ago
  • Profile photo of Ed J Ed J on Myth of free will
    1 hour, 12 minutes ago
  • Profile photo of GeneBalthrop GeneBalthrop on Satan's "DOCTRINE OF
    SEPERATION "
    1 hour, 58 minutes ago
  • Profile photo of GeneBalthrop GeneBalthrop on Myth of free will
    2 hours, 18 minutes ago
  • Profile photo of GeneBalthrop GeneBalthrop on Myth of free will
    2 hours, 27 minutes ago
  • Profile photo of kerwin kerwin on Myth of free will
    4 hours, 31 minutes ago
  • Profile photo of NickHassan NickHassan on Satan's "DOCTRINE OF SEPERATION "
    4 hours, 37 minutes ago
  • Profile photo of kerwin kerwin on Myth of free will
    4 hours, 46 minutes ago

Recent Topics

  • China has launched a frightening game by Profile photo of t8 t8
    2 days, 15 hours ago
  • Is the Vatican the Beast? by Profile photo of t8 t8
    1 week ago
  • 2016 by Profile photo of t8 t8
    1 day, 11 hours ago
  • Israel, the leader in water conservation technologies by Profile photo of
    Ed J Ed J
    1 week, 1 day ago
  • The Ottoman Empire by Profile photo of t8 t8
    1 week, 1 day ago

Translate

NOTE: Translating this page may render some text as incorrect.

    Heaven Net

 Categories

  • Conspiracies (1)
  • Debate (28)
  • Doctrine (39)
  • Feedback (1)
  • Gospel (2)
  • History (23)
  • News (13)
  • Parables (2)
  • Prophecy (44)
  • Questions (30)
  • Quotes (46)
  • Science (26)
  • Scripture (29)
  • Sermon (47)
  • Testimonies (2)
  • Visions (15)

Tags

abortion antichrist apostasy atheism bible church conscience creation creator
cross damascus death deception devil end times eternity evil free will god
heaven hell islam israel jesus judgement life money newton ottoman persecution
photos physics prayer quotes religions salvation scripture of the day signs sin
soul tribulation trinity video war word

Study Tools

  • Bible Lookup
  • Concordance
  • Hebrew Text
  • Greek Text

About this site

About
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions

Popular Posts

  • Upon this rock, Jesus Christ built his Church (46)
  • Basic logic (44)
  • Matthew 13:47-50 (39)
  • Mystery of the Shemitah (35)
  • The Forbidden Chapter in the Tanakh (29)

 Log in with Facebook
or
Username [                    ] Password [                    ]
[ ] Remember Me
[Log In] Register
Who’s Online

Profile picture of GeneBalthrop
Profile picture of Ed J
 

© 1999 - 2016 Heaven Net

 Log in with Facebook
or

Log in with your credentials

or    Create an account

[                    ] [                    ]
Sign in [ ] Remember me Lost your password?
Forgot your details?

[                    ]
Reset Password I remember my details
