bg image(grnprch.jpg)

                                                               COPYRIGHT NOTICE
           This E-Text © 1999, 2005, 2008, 2010, 2013   Pass the WORD Services.
                            E-Text Copyright renews with each published update.

                                                   On-line at PTW: May 30, 1999
                                                  Last update: January 21, 2013

                  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

                                Madame Guyon's

                                The Way to God
                                    and of
                              The State of Union

                                        

     This English translation originally appeared in "Spiritual Progress"
                or Instructions in the Divine Life of the Soul
                 from the French of Fenelon and Madame Guyon";
                 Printed in 1853; Edited by James W. Metcalf.

                                        

                  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

                                        

                                 CONCISE VIEW

                                      OF

                                THE WAY TO GOD;

                                    AND OF

                          THE STATE OF UNION WITH GOD

                                BY MADAME GUYON

                 "And the glory which Thou gavest me, I have given them; that
                they may be one even as we are one, (I in them and Thou in me,)
                    that they may be made perfect in one."  John xvii. 22.

                                        

                                   Part   I.

                               ON THE WAY TO GOD

                              ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

                        THE FIRST DEGREE:   CONVERSION.

        1. THE first degree is the return of the Soul to God, when, being truly
        converted, it begins to subsist by means of his grace.

                              ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

             THE SECOND DEGREE:   THE EFFECTUAL TOUCH IN THE WILL.

        2. THE Soul then receives an effectual Touch in the Will, which invites
        it to recollection, and instructs it that God is within, and must be
        sought there; that He is present in the Heart, and must be there
        enjoyed.

        3. This discovery, in the beginning, is the source of very great joy to
        the Soul, as it is an intimation or pledge of happiness to come; in its
        very commencement, the road it is to pursue is opened and is shown to
        be that of the Inward Life. This knowledge is the more admirable, as it
        is the spring of all the felicity of the Soul, and the solid foundation
        of interior progress; for those Souls who tend toward God merely by the
        intellect, even though they should enjoy a somewhat spiritual
        contemplation, yet can never enter into Intimate Union, if they do not
        quit that path and enter this of the Inward Touch, where the whole
        working is in the Will.

        4. Those who are led in this Way, though conducted by a blind
        abandonment, yet experience a savory knowledge. They never walk by the
        light of the intellect, like the former, who receive distinct lights to
        guide them, and who, having a clear view of the road, never enter those
        impenetrable passes of the hidden Will which are reserved for the
        latter. The former proceed upon the evidence furnished by their
        illuminations, assisted by their reason, and they do well; but the
        latter are destined to pursue blindly an unknown course, which,
        nevertheless, appears perfectly natural to them, although they seem
        obliged to feel their way. They go, however, with more certainty than
        the others, who are subject to be misled in their intellectual
        illuminations; but these are guided by a supreme Will which conducts
        them howsoever it will. And further, all the more immediate operations
        are performed in the Centre of the Soul, that is, in the Three Powers
        reduced to the Unity of the Will, where they are all absorbed,
        insensibly following the path prescribed for them by that Touch to
        which we have before referred.

        5. These latter are they who pursue the Way of Faith and absolute
        Abandonment. They have neither relish nor liberty for any other path;
        all else constrains and embarrasses them. They dwell in greater
        aridities than the others, for as there is nothing distinct to which
        their minds are attached, their thoughts often wander and have nothing
        to fix them. And as there are differences in Souls, some having more
        sensible delights, and others being drier, so it is with those who are
        led by the Will; the former sort have more relish and less solid
        acquirement, and should restrain their too eager disposition, and
        suffer their emotions to pass, even when they seem burning with love;
        the latter seem harder and more insensible, and their state appears
        altogether natural; nevertheless, there is a delicate something in the
        depth of the Will, which serves to nourish them, and which is, as it
        were, the condensed Essence of what the others experience in the
        intellect and in ardor of purpose.

        6. Still, as this support is exceedingly delicate, it frequently
        becomes imperceptible, and is hidden by the slightest thing. This gives
        rise to great suffering, especially in times of tribulation and
        temptation; for as the relish and support are delicate and concealed,
        the Will partakes of the same character in a high degree, so that such
        Souls have none of those strong wills. Their state is more indifferent
        and insensible, and their way more equable; but this does not hinder
        them from having as severe and even more serious trouble than others;
        for nothing being done in them by impulse, everything takes place, as
        it were, naturally, and their feeble, insensible, hidden Wills cannot
        be found, to make head against their foes. Their Fidelity, however,
        often excels that of the others. Notice the striking difference between
        Peter and John; one seems to be overflowing with extraordinary zeal,
        and falls away at the voice of a maid-servant; the other makes no
        external manifestation, and remains faithful unto the end.

        7. You will ask me, then, if these Souls are urged on by no violent
        influence, but walk in blindness, do they do the will of God? They do,
        more truly, although they have no distinct assurance of it; His Will is
        engraved in indelible characters on their very inmost recesses, so that
        they perform with a cold and languid, but firm and inviolable,
        abandonment, what the others accomplish by the drawings of an exquisite
        delight.

        8. Thus they go on under the influence of this divine touch, from one
        degree to another, by a faith more or less sensibly savory, and
        experience constant alternations of aridity and enjoyment of the
        presence of God, but ever finding that the enjoyment becomes
        continually deeper and less perceptible, and thus more delicate and
        interior. They discover, too, that in the midst of their aridity, and
        without any distinct illumination, they are not the less enlightened;
        for this state is luminous in itself, though dark to the Soul that
        dwells in it. And so true is this, that they find themselves more
        acquainted with the truth; I mean that truth implanted in their
        interior, and which causes everything to yield to the Will of God. This
        divine Will becomes more familiar to them, and they are enabled, in
        their insipid way, to penetrate a thousand Mysteries that never could
        have been discovered by the light of reason and knowledge. They are
        insensibly and gradually preparing, without being aware of it, for the
        states that are to follow.

        9. The trials of this state are alternations of dryness and facility.
        The former purified the attachment or tendency and natural relish that
        we have for the enjoyment of God. So that the whole of this degree is
        passed in these alternations of enjoyment, aridity, and facility,
        without any intermixture of temptations, except very transitory ones,
        or certain faults; for in every state, from the beginning onward, the
        faults of nature are much more liable to overtake us in times of
        aridity than in seasons of interior joy, when the Unction of Grace
        secures us from a thousand evils. In all the preceding states thus far,
        the Soul is engaged in combatting its evil habits, and in endeavoring
        to overcome them by all sorts of painful Self-denial.

        10. In the beginning, when God turned its look inward, he so influenced
        it against itself, that it was obliged to cut off all its enjoyments,
        even the most innocent, and to load itself with every kind of
        affliction. God gives no respite to some in this regard, until the life
        of Nature, that is, of the exterior senses as manifested in appetites,
        likes and dislikes, is wholly destroyed.

        11. This destruction of the appetites and repugnances of the outward
        senses, belongs to the second degree, which I have called the effectual
        Touch in the Will, and in which the highest and greatest virtue is
        practised, especially when the inward drawing is vigorous and the
        Unction very savory. For there is no sort of contrivance that God does
        not discover to the Soul, to enable it to conquer and overcome Self in
        everything; so that at length, by this constant practice, accompanied
        by the gracious Unction before referred to, the Spirit gets the upper
        hand of Nature, and the interior part comes under subjection without
        resistance. There is, then, no further trouble from this source, any
        more than if all external feeling had been taken away. This state is
        mistaken, by those who are but little enlightened, for a state of
        Death; it is, indeed, the Death of the Senses, but there is yet a long
        way to that of the Spirit.     

                              ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

            THE THIRD DEGREE:    PASSIVITY AND INTERIOR SACRIFICE.

        12. WHEN we have for some time enjoyed the repose of a victory that has
        cost us so much trouble, and suppose ourselves forever relieved from an
        enemy whose whole power has been destroyed, we enter into the third
        degree, next in order to the other, which is a Way of Faith more or
        less savory, according to the state. We enter into a condition of
        alternate dryness and facility, as I have stated, and in this dryness,
        the Soul perceives certain exterior weaknesses, natural defects, which,
        though slight, take it by surprise; it feels, too, that the strength it
        had received for the struggle, is dying away. This is caused by the
        loss of our active, inward force; for although the Soul, in the second
        degree, imagines itself to be in silence before God, it is not entirely
        so. It does not speak, indeed, either in Heart or by Mouth, but it is
        in an active striving after God and constant outbreathing of Love, so
        that, being the subject of the most powerful amorous activity, exerted
        by the Divine Love towards Himself, it is continually leaping, as it
        were, towards its object, and its activity is accompanied by a
        delightful and almost constant Peace. As it is from this activity of
        Love that we acquire the strength to overcome Nature, it is then that
        we practice the greatest virtues and most severe mortifications.

        13. But just in proportion as this activity decays, and is lost in an
        amorous passivity, so does our strength of resistance sink and
        diminish, and, as this degree advances, and the Soul becomes more and
        more passive, it becomes more and more powerless in combat. As God
        becomes strong within, so do we become weak. Some regard this
        impossibility of resistance as a great temptation, but they do not see
        that all our labor, aided and assisted by Grace, can only accomplish
        the conquest of our Outward Senses, after which God takes gradual
        possession of our Interior, and becomes Himself our purifier. And as He
        required all our watchfulness while He continued us in amorous
        activity, so He now requires all our Fidelity to let Him work, while He
        begins to render Himself Lord by the subjection of the Flesh to the
        Spirit.

        14. For it must be observed that all our outward Perfection depends
        upon, and must follow the inward; so that when we are employed in
        active devotion, however simple, we are actively engaged against
        ourselves just as simply.

        15. The second degree accomplishes the destruction of the Outward
        Senses, the third, that of the Inward, and this is brought about by
        means of this savory passivity. But as God is then working within, He
        seems to neglect the outward, and hence the reappearance of defects,
        though feebly and only in a time of aridity, which we thought extinct.

        16. The nearer we approach the termination of the third degree, the
        longer and more frequent are our aridities, and the greater our
        weakness. This is a purification which serves to destroy our internal
        feelings, as the amorous activity put an end to our external, and in
        each degree, there are alternations of dryness and enjoyment. The
        dryness serves as a purifier of the joy that is to follow; it is always
        painful from its barrenness and weakness. As soon as we cease, from
        inability, to practice mortifications of our own fashioning, those of
        Providence take their place  the crosses which God dispenses according
        to our degree. These are not chosen by the Soul; but the Soul, under
        the interior guidance of God, receives such as He appoints.     

                              ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

                      THE FOURTH DEGREE:    NAKED FAITH.

        17. THE fourth degree is Naked Faith; here we have nothing but inward
        and outward desolation; for the one always follows the other.

        18. Every degree has its beginning, progress, and consummation.

        19. All that has hitherto been granted and acquired with so much labor,
        is here gradually taken away.

        20. This degree is the longest, and only ends with total death, if the
        Soul be willing to be so desolated as to die wholly to Self. For there
        is an infinite number of Souls that never pass the first degrees, and
        of those who reach the present state there are very few in whom its
        perfect work is accomplished.

        21. This desolation takes place in some with violence, and although
        they suffer more distress than others, yet they have less reason to
        complain, for the very severity of their affliction is a sort of
        consolation. There are others who experience only a feebleness and a
        kind of disgust for everything, which has the appearance of being a
        failure in duty and unwillingness to obey.

        22. We are first deprived of our voluntary works, and become unable to
        do what we did in the preceding degrees; and as this increases, we
        begin to feel a general inability in respect to everything, which,
        instead of diminishing, enlarges day by day. This weakness and
        inability gradually taking possession of us, we enter upon a condition
        in which we say: "For that which I do, I allow not; for what I would,
        that do I not; but what I hate, that do I." (Rom. vii. 15.)

        23. After being thus deprived of all things, both inward and outward,
        which are not essential, the work begins upon those which are; and in
        proportion as the virtuous life becoming a Christian, which we regarded
        with so much complacency, disappears, we are likewise spoiled of a
        certain interior delight and substantial support. As this support
        becomes weaker and more subtile, the more perceptible becomes its loss.
        It is to be remarked, however, that there is no loss except to our own
        consciousness, as it still exists in the Soul, but imperceptibly and
        without apparent action. If it were not hidden, the death and loss of
        Self could not be accomplished. But it retires within, and shuts itself
        up so closely that the Soul is not aware of its presence.     

        24. Do you ask why this course is pursued? The whole object of the Way
        thus far has been to cause the Soul to pass from multiplicity to the
        distinct sensible without multiplicity; from the distinct sensible to
        the distinct insensible; then to the sensible indistinct, which is a
        general delight much less attractive than the other. It is vigorous in
        the beginning and introduces the Soul into the perceived, which is a
        purer and less exquisite pleasure than the first; from the perceived,
        into Faith sustained and working by Love; passing in this Way from the
        sensible to the spiritual, and from the spiritual to Naked Faith,
        which, causing us to be dead to all spiritual experiences, makes us die
        to ourselves and pass into God, that we may live henceforth from the
        Life of God only.

        25. In the economy of Grace, then, we begin with sensible things,
        continue with those which are spiritual, and end by leading the Soul
        gradually into its centre, and uniting it with God.

        26. The more deeply this imperceptible support retires, the more does
        it knit the Soul together, so that it cannot continue to multiply
        itself among a thousand things which it can no longer either affect or
        even perceive; and, entirely stripped, it is gradually obliged to
        desert even itself.

        27. It is stripped without mercy, then, equally and at the same time,
        of everything both within and without, and what is worst of all, is
        delivered over to temptations; and the more fully it is thus given up
        to temptation, the more completely is it deprived of strength to resist
        them from without; thus it is weakened still farther at the very time
        when it is subjected to more violent attacks, and finally its internal
        support is removed, which, while it served as a refuge and asylum,
        would be an evidence of the Goodness of God, and of its Faithfulness to
        itself.

        28. So you may see a man pursued by a powerful adversary; he fights,
        and defends himself as well as he is able, always contriving, however,
        to get nearer and nearer to a Stronghold of Safety; but the longer he
        fights the weaker he becomes, while the strength of his opponent is
        constantly increasing. What shall he do? He will gain the portal of the
        stronghold as adroitly as he can, for there he will find abundant aid.
        But, on reaching it, he sees that it is closed, and finds that, far
        from rendering him any assistance, the keepers have barricaded every
        loophole of refuge; he must fall into the hands of his powerful enemy,
        whom he recognizes, when, defenceless and in despair, he has given
        himself up, as his best and truest friend.

        29. Be sure, then, that this degree comprehends all these things; the
        privation of every good, the accumulation of all sorts of weaknesses,
        powerlessness of defence, no interior asylum; God himself often appears
        angry; and, to crown all, temptations.

        30. Willingly, I think I hear you say, provided I might be sure that my
        Will was not in harmony with the malignity of Nature and the weaknesses
        of the senses. Ah! you would be too happy; but that cannot be. In
        proportion as you become enfeebled and destitute of every operation and
        activity of Love, however insignificant, the Will, which was founded in
        that vigor of Love, becoming weaker day by day, gradually disappears;
        and vanishing thus, it is certain that it takes no part in anything
        that is passing in the man, but is separate. But as it does not
        manifest itself anywhere, by any sign, it affords no assured support to
        the Soul, but the contrary; for, no longer finding the Will in an
        attitude of resistance, the Soul believes that it is consenting to
        everything, and that it has joined in with the animal will, which is
        the only one perceptible.

        31. You will, perhaps, remind one that I have before stated that, in
        the first contest of amorous activity, Nature and the Senses had
        become, as it were, extinguished and subdued. It is true; but the
        Spirit of Self, by the very victories that Grace had thus acquired for
        it, has become high-minded, more tenacious of what it esteems good, and
        still more indomitable. God, who is determined to subdue it, makes use
        for that purpose, of an apparent resurrection of that same nature which
        the Soul supposed dead. But observe that He does not use Nature until
        He has extracted its malignity, destroyed it and separated the superior
        Will from that which rendered it violent and criminal. He extracts the
        venom of the viper, and then uses it as an antidote to the Spirit.
        Whoever shall become acquainted with the admirable Economy of Grace and
        the Wisdom of God in bringing man to a total sacrifice of Self, will be
        filled with delight, and, insensible as he may be, will expire with
        Love. The little traces of it which have been revealed to my Heart,
        have often overwhelmed me with ecstasy and transport.

        32. Fidelity in this degree requires us to suffer Spoliation to the
        whole extent of the designs of God, without being anxious about
        ourselves, sacrificing to God all our interests both for time and for
        eternity. Nothing must be made a pretext for reserving or retaining the
        slightest atom, for the least reservation is the cause of an
        irreparable loss, as it prevents our death, from being total. We must
        let God work his absolute pleasure, and suffer the winds and tempests
        to beat upon us from every quarter, submerged, as we may often be,
        beneath the tumultuous billows.

        33. A wonderful thing is here perceived; far from being estranged by
        our suffering and wretched state, it is then that God appears; and if
        any weakness has been apparent, He gives us some token of his immediate
        presence, as if to assure the Soul for a moment, that He was with it in
        its tribulation. I say for a moment, for it is of no service
        subsequently, as a support, but is rather intended to point out the Way
        and invite the Soul to the further loss of Self.

        34. These states are not continuous in their violence; there are
        remissions, which, while they afford space for taking breath, serve, at
        the same time, to render the subsequent trial more painful. For Nature
        will make use of anything to sustain its life, as a drowning man will
        support himself in the water by clinging to the blade of a razor,
        without adverting to the pain it causes him, if there be nothing else
        within his reach.     

                              ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

                      THE FIFTH DEGREE:   MYSTICAL DEATH.

        35. ATTACKED thus on all sides by so many enemies, without life and
        without support, we have no recourse but to expire in the arms of Love.
        When death is complete, the most terrible states cause no further
        trouble. We do not recognize death from the fact of having passed
        through all these states, but by an absolute want of power to feel
        pain, to think of or care for Self, and, by our indifference to
        remaining there forever, without manifesting the slightest sign of
        vitality. Life is evidenced by a Will for or repugnance to something;
        but here, in this death of the Soul, all things are alike. It remains
        dead and insensible to everything that concerns itself, and, let God
        reduce it to what extremity He will, feels no repugnance. It has no
        choice between being Angel or Demon, because it has no longer any eyes
        for Self. It is then that God has placed all its enemies beneath his
        footstool, and, reigning supreme, takes and possesses it the more
        fully, as it has the more completely deserted itself. But this takes
        place by degrees.

        36. There remains for a long time, even after death, a trace of the
        living heat, which is only gradually dissipated. All states effect
        somewhat towards cleansing the Soul, but here the process is completed.

        37. We do not die spiritually, once for all, as we do naturally; it is
        accomplished gradually; we vibrate between life and death, being
        sometimes in one and sometimes in the other, until death has finally
        conquered life. And so it is in the resurrection; an alternate state of
        life and death, until life has finally overcome death.

        38. Not that the new life does not come suddenly. He who was dead,
        finds himself living, and can never afterward doubt that he was dead
        and is alive again; but it is not then established; it is rather a
        disposition toward living, than a settled state of life.

        39. The first life of Grace began in the sensible, and sank continually
        inward toward the Centre, until, having reduced the Soul to Unity, it
        caused it to expire in the arms of Love; for all experience this death,
        but each by means peculiar to himself. But the life that is now
        communicated arises from within; it is, as it were, a living germ which
        has always existed there, though unobserved, and which demonstrates
        that the life of Grace has never been wholly absent, however it may
        have been suffered to remain hidden. There it remained even in the
        midst of death; nor was it less death because life was concealed in it;
        as the silk-worm lies long dead in the chrysalis, but contains a germ
        of life that awakes it to a resurrection. This new life, then, buds in
        the Centre, and grows from there; thence it gradually extends over all
        the faculties and senses, impregnating them with its own life and
        fecundity.

        40. The Soul, endued with this vitality, experiences an infinite
        contentment; not in itself, but in God; and this especially when the
        life is well advanced.

        41. But, before entering upon the effects of this admirable life, let
        me say, that there are some who do not pass through these painful
        deaths; they only experience a mortal languor and fainting, which
        annihilate them, and cause them to die to all.

        42. Many spiritual persons have given the name of death, to the earlier
        purifications, which are, indeed, a death in relation to the life
        communicated, but not a total death. They result in an extinguishment
        of some one of the lives of Nature, or of Grace; but that is widely
        different from a general extinction of all life.

        43. Death has various names, according to our different manner of
        expression or conception. It is called a departure, that is, a
        separation from Self in order that we may pass into God; a loss, total
        and entire, of the Will of the creature, which causes the Soul to be
        wanting to itself, that it may exist only in God. Now, as this Will is
        in everything that subsists in the creature, however good and holy it
        may be, all these things must necessarily be destroyed, so far as they
        so subsist, and so far as the good will of man is in them, that the
        Will of God alone may remain. Everything born of the will of the flesh
        and the will of man, must be destroyed. Then nothing but the Will of
        God is left, which becomes the principle of the new life, and,
        gradually animating the old extinguished will, takes its place and
        changes it into Faith.

        44. From the time that the Soul expires mystically, it is separated
        generally from everything that would be an obstacle to its perfect
        Union with God; but it is not, for all that, received into God. This
        causes it the most extreme suffering. You will object here, that, if it
        be wholly dead, it can no longer suffer. Let me explain.

        45. The Soul is dead as soon as it is separated from Self; but this
        death or mystic decease is not complete until it has passed into God.
        Until then, it suffers very greatly, but its suffering is general and
        indistinct, and proceeds solely from the fact that it is not yet
        established in its proper place.

        46. The suffering which precedes death, is caused by our repugnance to
        the means that are to produce it. This repugnance returns whenever
        these means recur, or grow sharper; but in proportion as we die we
        become more and more insensible, and seem to harden under the blows,
        until at last death comes in truth through an entire cessation of all
        life. God has unrelentingly pursued our life into all its covert hiding
        places; for so malignant is it, that when hard pressed, it fortifies
        itself in its refuges, and makes use of the holiest and most reasonable
        pretexts for existence; but, being persecuted and followed into its
        last retreat, in a few souls (alas! how few!) it is obliged to abandon
        them altogether.

        47. No pain then remains arising from the means which have caused our
        death, and which are exactly the opposite to those which used to
        maintain our life; the more reasonable and holy the latter are in
        appearance, the more unreasonable and defiled is the look of the other.

        48. But after death  which is the cause of the Soul's departure from
        Self, that is, of its losing every Self-appropriation whatever; for we
        never know how strongly we cling to objects until they are taken away,
        and he who thinks that he is attached to nothing, is frequently grandly
        mistaken, being bound to a thousand things, unknown to himself  after
        death, I repeat, the Soul is entirely rid of Self, but not at first
        received into God. There still exists a something, I know not exactly
        what, a form, a human remnant; but that also vanishes. It is a tarnish
        which is destroyed by a general, indistinct suffering, having no
        relation to the means of death, since they are passed away and
        completed; but it is an uneasiness arising from the fact of being
        turned out of Self, without being received into its great Original. The
        Soul loses all possession of Self, without which it could never be
        united to God; but it is only gradually that it becomes fully possessed
        of Him by means of the new life, which is wholly divine.     

                              ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

                   UNION WITH GOD:   BUT NOT YET RECOGNIZED.

        49. AS soon as the Soul has died in the embraces of the Lord, it is
        united to Him in truth and without any intermediate; for in losing
        everything, even its best possessions, it has lost the means and
        intermediates which dwelt in them; and even these greatest treasures
        themselves were but intermediates. It is, then, from that moment,
        united to God immediately, but it does not recognize it, nor does it
        enjoy the fruits of its Union, until He animates it and becomes its
        vivifying principle. A bride fainting in the arms of her husband, is
        closely united to him, but she does not enjoy the blessedness of the
        union, and may even be unconscious of it; but when he has contemplated
        her for some time, fainting from excess of love, and recalls her to
        life by his tender caresses, then she perceives that she is in
        possession of him whom her Soul loves, and that she is possessed by
        him.

                                        

                                        

                                  Part   II.

                              ON UNION WITH GOD.

                              ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

                               THE RESURRECTION.

        50. THE Soul thus possessed of God, finds that He is so perfectly Lord
        over it, that it can no longer do anything but what He pleases and as
        He pleases; and this state goes on increasing. Its powerlessness is no
        longer painful but pleasant, because it is full of the Life and Power
        of the Divine Will.

        51. The dead Soul is in Union, but it does not enjoy the fruits of it
        until the moment of its Resurrection, when God, causing it to pass into
        Him, gives it such pledges and assurances of the consummation of its
        Divine Marriage, that it can no longer doubt: for this immediate Union
        is so spiritual, so refined, so divine, so intimate, that it is equally
        impossible for the Soul to conceive or to doubt it. For we may observe
        that the whole way whereof we speak, is infinitely removed from any
        imagination; these Souls are not in the least imaginative, having
        nothing in the intellect, and are perfectly protected from deceptions
        and illusions, as everything takes place within.

        52. During their passage through the Way of Faith, they had nothing
        distinct, for distinctness is entirely opposed to Faith, and they could
        not enjoy anything of that sort, having only a certain generality as a
        foundation upon which everything was communicated to them. But it is
        far otherwise when the life becomes advanced in God; for though they
        have nothing distinct for themselves, they have for others, and their
        illumination for the use of others, though not always received by those
        for whom it was intended, is the more certain as it is more immediate,
        and as it were natural.

        53. When God raises a Soul, that is to say, receives it into Himself,
        and the living germ, which is no other than the Life and Spirit of the
        Word, begins to appear, it constitutes the Revelation in it of Jesus
        Christ, (Gal. i. 16,) who lives in us by the loss of the life of Adam
        subsisting in Self.

        54. The Soul is thus received into God, and is there gradually changed
        and transformed into Him, as food is transformed into the one who has
        partaken of it. All this takes place without any loss of its own
        individual existence, as has been elsewhere explained.

        55. When transformation begins, it is called annihilation, since in
        changing our form, we become annihilated as to our own, in order to
        take on His. This operation goes on constantly during life, changing
        the Soul more and more into God, and conferring upon it a continually
        increasing participation in the divine qualities, making it
        unchangeable, immovable, etc. But He also renders it fruitful in, and
        not out of, Himself.

        56. This fruitfulness extends to certain persons whom God gives and
        attaches to the Soul, communicating to it his Love, full of Charity.
        For the love of these divine Souls for the persons thus bestowed upon
        them, while it is far removed from the natural feelings, is infinitely
        stronger than the love of parents for their children, and though it
        appears eager and precipitate, it is not so, because he, who exhibits
        it, merely follows the movement impressed upon him.

        57. To make this intelligible, we must know that God did not deprive
        the senses and faculties of their life, to leave them dead; for though
        there might be life in the Centre of the Soul, they would remain dead
        if that life were not also communicated to them. It increases by
        degrees, animates all the powers and senses which, until then, had
        remained barren and unfruitful, enlarges them in proportion to its
        communication, and renders them active, but with an activity derived
        and regulated from God, according to His own designs. Persons in a
        dying or dead condition, must not condemn the activity of such Souls,
        for they could never have been put in divine motion if they had not
        passed through the most wonderful death. During the whole period of
        Faith, the Soul remains motionless; but after God has infused into it
        the Divine Activity, its sphere is vastly extended; but, great as it
        may be, it cannot execute a Self-originated movement.

                              ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

                               THE LIFE IN GOD.

        58. THERE is no more to be said here of degrees; that of Glory being
        all that remains, every means being left behind, and the future
        consisting in our enjoying an infinite stretch of life, and that more
        and more abundantly. (John x. 10.) As God transforms the Soul into
        Himself, his life is communicated to it more plentifully. The Love of
        God for the creature is incomprehensible, and his assiduity
        inexplicable; some Souls He pursues without intermission, prevents
        them, seats Himself at their door, and delights Himself in being with
        them and in loading them with the marks of his Love. He impresses this
        chaste, pure, and tender love upon the Heart. St. Paul and St. John the
        Evangelist, felt the most of this maternal affection. But to be as I
        have described it, it must be bestowed upon the Soul in the state of
        Grace of which I have just spoken; otherwise, such emotions are purely
        natural.

        59. The prayer of the state of Faith is an absolute silence of all the
        powers of the Soul, and a cessation of every working, however delicate,
        especially toward its termination. The Soul in that state, perceiving
        no more prayer, and not being able to set apart fixed seasons for it,
        since all such exercises are taken away, is led to think that it has
        absolutely lost all kind of devotion. But when life returns, Prayer
        returns with it, and accompanied by a marvellous facility; and as God
        takes possession of the senses and faculties, its devotion becomes
        sweet, gentle, and very spiritual, but always to God. Its former
        devotion caused it to sink within itself, that it might enjoy God, but
        that which it now has, draws it out of Self, that it may be more and
        more lost and changed in God.

        60. This difference is quite remarkable, and can only be accomplished
        by experience. The Soul is silent in the state of death, but its
        stillness is barren, and accompanied by a frantic rambling, which
        leaves no mark of silence save the impossibility of addressing God,
        either with the lips or the heart. But after the Resurrection, its
        silence is fruitful and attended by an exceedingly pure and refined
        Unction, which is deliciously diffused over the senses, but with such a
        purity, that it occasions no stay and contracts no taint.

        61. It is now impossible for the Soul to take what it has not, or to
        put off what it has. It receives with passive willingness whatever
        impressions are made upon it. Its state, however overwhelming, would be
        free from suffering, if God, who moves it towards certain free things,
        gave them the necessary correspondence. But as their state will not
        bear it, it becomes necessary that what God wills they should have,
        should be communicated by means of suffering for them.

        62. It would be wrong for such persons to say that they do not wish
        these means; that they desire God only. He is anxious that they should
        die to a certain interior support of Self, which causes them to say
        that they desire God only, and if they were to reject these means, they
        would withdraw themselves from the order of God, and arrest their
        progress. But, being given simply as means, though fruitful in grace
        and virtue, however secret and concealed, they finally disappear when
        the Soul finds itself united with the means in God, and He communicates
        Himself directly. Then God withdraws the means, upon which he no longer
        impresses any movement in the direction of the person to whom they are
        attached; because it might then serve as a stay, its utility being at
        last recognized. The Soul can then no longer have what it had, and
        remains in its first death in respect to them, though still very
        closely united.

        63. In this state of Resurrection comes that ineffable silence, by
        which we not only subsist in God, but commune with Him, and which, in a
        Soul thus dead to its own working, and general and fundamental
        Self-appropriation, becomes a flux and reflux of Divine Communion, with
        nothing to sully its purity; for there is nothing to hinder it.

        64. The Soul then becomes a partaker of the ineffable communion of the
        Trinity, where the Father of Spirits imparts his spiritual fecundity,
        and makes it one Spirit with Himself. Here it is that it communes with
        other Souls, if they are sufficiently pure to receive its
        communications in silence, according to their degree and state; here,
        that the ineffable secrets are revealed, not by a momentary
        illumination, but in God Himself, where they are all hid, the Soul not
        possessing them for itself, nor being ignorant of them.

        65. Although I have said that the Soul then has something distinct, yet
        it is not distinct in reference to itself, but to those with whom it
        communes; for what it says is said naturally and without attention, but
        seems extraordinary to the hearers, who, not finding the thing in
        themselves, notwithstanding it may be there, consider it as something
        distinct and wonderful, or perhaps fanatical. Souls that are still
        dwelling among gifts, have distinct and momentary illuminations, but
        these latter have only a general illumination, without defined beams,
        which is God Himself; whence they draw whatever they need, which is
        distinct whenever it is required by those with whom they are
        conversing, and without any of it remaining with themselves
        afterwards.     

                              ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

                              THE TRANSFORMATION.

        66. THERE are a thousand things that might be said about the inward and
        celestial life of the Soul thus full of life in God, which He dearly
        cherishes for Himself, and which He covers externally with abasement,
        because He is a jealous God. But it would require a volume, and I have
        only to fulfill your request. God is the life and Soul of this Soul,
        which thus uninterruptedly lives in God, as a fish in the sea, in
        inexpressible happiness, though loaded with the sufferings which God
        lays upon it for others.

        67. It has become so simple, especially when its transformation is far
        advanced, that it goes its way perpetually without a thought for any
        creature or for itself. It has but one object, to do the will of God.
        But as it has to do with many of the creatures who cannot attain to
        this state, some of them cause it suffering by endeavoring to compel it
        to have a care for Self, to take precautions, and so on, which it
        cannot do; and others by their want of correspondence to the Will of
        God.

        68. The crosses of such Souls are the most severe, and God keeps them
        under the most abject humiliations and a very common and feeble
        exterior, though they are his delight. Then Jesus Christ communicates
        Himself in all his states, and the Soul is clothed upon both with his
        inclinations and sufferings. It understands what man has cost Him, what
        his faithlessness has made Him suffer, what is the redemption of Jesus
        Christ, and how He has borne his children.

        69. The Transformation is recognized by the want of distinction between
        God and the Soul, it not being able any longer to separate itself from
        God; everything is equally God, because it has passed into its Original
        Source, is reunited to its ALL, and changed into Him. But it is enough
        for me to sketch the general outlines of what you desire to know;
        experience will teach you the rest, and having shown you what I ought
        to be to you, you may judge of what I am in our Lord.

        70. In proportion as its Transformation is perfected, the Soul finds a
        more extended quality in itself. Everything is expanded and dilated,
        God making it a partaker of His infinity; so that it often finds itself
        immense, and the whole earth appears but as a point in comparison with
        this wonderful breadth and extension. Whatever is in the order and will
        of God, expands it; everything else contracts it; and this contraction
        restrains it from passing out. As the Will is the means of effecting
        the transformation, and the Center is nothing else but all the
        faculties united in the will, the more the Soul is transformed, the
        more its will is changed and passed into that of God, and the more God
        Himself wills for the Soul. The Soul acts and works in this Divine
        Will, which is thus substituted for its own, so naturally, that it
        cannot tell whether the will of the Soul is become the Will of God, or
        the Will of God become the will of the Soul.

        71. God frequently exacts strange sacrifices from Souls thus
        transformed in Him; but it costs them nothing, for they will sacrifice
        everything to Him without repugnance. The smaller sacrifices cost the
        most, and the greater ones the least, for they are not required until
        the Soul is in a state to grant them without difficulty, to which it
        has a natural tendency. This is what is said of Jesus Christ on his
        coming into the world; "Then said I, Lo, I come: in the volume of the
        book it is written of me; I delight to do thy will, O my God; yea, thy
        law is within my heart." (Psalm xi. 7,8.) As soon as Christ comes into
        any Soul to become its living principle, He says the same thing of it;
        He becomes the eternal Priest who unceasingly fulfills within the Soul
        his sacerdotal office. This is sublime indeed, and continues until the
        victim is carried to glory.

        72. God destines these Souls for the assistance of others in the most
        tangled paths; for, having no longer any anxiety in regard to
        themselves, nor anything to lose, God can use them to bring others into
        the way of his pure, naked and assured Will. Those who are still
        Self-possessed, could not be used for this purpose; for, not having yet
        entered into a state where they follow the Will of God blindly for
        themselves, but always mingling it with their own reasonings, and false
        wisdom, they are not by any means in a condition to withhold nothing in
        following it blindly for others. When I say withhold nothing, I mean of
        that which God desires in the present moment; for He frequently does
        not permit us to point out to a person all that hinders him, and what
        we see must come to pass in respect to him, except in general terms,
        because he cannot bear it. And though we may sometimes say hard things,
        as Christ did to the Capernaites, He nevertheless bestows a secret
        strength to bear it; at least He does so to the Souls whom He has
        chosen solely for Himself; and this is the Touchstone.

                  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

                                    FINIS.

                         More Documents from the Past
                    Other On-Line Manuscripts from the Past

           Please report typographical errors to the Site Stewards.

