Domestic-Church.Com

                                                                                                                                                                                  • Stores
                                                                                                                                                                                      □ Advent,
                                                                                                                                                                                        Christmas
           • Sister Sites                                                                                                                                                               and
               □ Marian-Devotions.Com                • Fridge                                                                                                                           Epiphany               • Tell a
  • Home       □ Lent-and-Easter.Com                   Art      • Saints   • Sacraments    • Essays   • Teaching   • Vocations   • Reviews   • Stewardship   • Editor   • Links       □ Lent and    • Search     Friend
               □ Advent-Christmas-and-Epiphany.Com                                                                                                                                      Easter
                                                                                                                                                                                      □ Ordinary
                                                                                                                                                                                        Time
                                                                                                                                                                                      □ Marian
                                                                                                                                                                                      □ Saints

[stcather]

Saint Catherine Laboure of the Miraculous Medal

by Catherine Fournier

Saint Catherine Laboure
Promulgator of the Miraculous Medal
Feast Day: November 25
Symbol: pictured in habit of the Sisters of Charity, with both sides of the
Miraculous Medal
Born: 2 May 1806 in Burgundy, France
Died: 31 December 1876 in Enghien-Reuilly, France
Canonized: 27 July 1947

Young Families

Can you keep a secret? Saint Catherine Laboure kept secret that fact that the
Blessed Virgin Mary appeared to her for forty five years.

The ninth of eleven children, Catherine Laboure was born in 1806 to a
successful farming family. When she was nine years old, her mother died, a sad
but not uncommon occurrence in those times. Catherine was very sad at the loss
of her mother, and kneeling before a picture of the Blessed Virgin Mary, said
"Mary, you will be my mother now. Help me to be good." Catherine helped her
father run the house and looking after the family until she was old enough to
leave home.

Catherine already knew what she wanted to do. A few years before, during a
visit to a hospital run by the Sisters of Charity, she 'met' an old man in a
vision who told her that God wanted her to work with the sick. Catherine
decided that she would join the Sisters of Charity and follow God's will. Some
time later, she saw a picture of the old man, and learned that it was Saint
Vincent de Paul, who had died many years earlier.

When Catherine was still a novice, an angel appeared to her and told her to go
to the chapel. Catherine knew she was supposed to stay in bed, but the angel
told her not to worry that everyone was asleep and she would not get in trouble
for walking around at night. In the chapel, Catherine met Our Blessed Mother,
who spoke to her, asking her to help spread devotion to her Immaculate
Conception. Catherine agreed.

Twice more, the Blessed Virgin appeared to Catherine, telling her to have a
medal made, showing on one side the Blessed Mother and the words 'O Mary,
conceived without sin, pray for us who have recourse to thee' and on the other
side the Hearts of Jesus and Mary. Catherine agreed, though she wondered how
she would ever find anyone who believed her and would help her. But her
confessor and other priests did agreed to help her cause.

Even after the medal was made and the devotion to it had spread all over the
world, her confessor was the only one who knew that Catherine Laboure was the
nun who had seen the Blessed Virgin and received her messages. Catherine was a
simple nun to all of her Sisters, quiet, unassuming, and subject sometimes to
teasing and ridicule for her submissive attitude. Only near to her death, when
she was trying to carry out the Virgin Mary's last request, that a statue be
made, did Catherine finally break her silence and tell her superior every
thing.

When Catherine died, joyful at the prospect of Heaven, her superior shared her
story with the rest of her Sisters, who were astonished at the treasure they
had dwelling in their midst all those years. Her funeral Mass was one of great
joy and celebration, the songs of sorrow and mourning were spontaneously
abandoned for songs of joy and thanksgiving. For Catherine, for the Miraculous
Medal, and for our great God Who loves us so much.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Practiced Families

Saint Catherine Laboure was born in Burgundy on May 2, 1806. Her mother
insisted on having her baptised only fifteen minutes after her birth, a
condition she did not request for any of her other ten children.

At an early age, Catherine Laboure entered the community of the Daughters of
Charity, in obedience to a vision of Saint Vincent de Paul, telling her that
God wanted her to work with the sick. While she was still a novice and only 24
years old, the Virgin Mary appeared to Catherine Laboure three times.

The first apparition was on July 18, 1830 in the community's motherhouse in
Paris. Going to the chapel on the instructions of an angel who had wakened her,
Catherine saw a lady seated on the left side of the altar. When Catherine knelt
before her and rested her hands in the lady's lap, she was told how to act in
times of trial, shown the altar as a source of all consolation, and warned of
an anticlerical revolt which took place forty years later in 1870.

On November 27 of 1830, the lady showed Catherine a small medal which she
removed from her belt. The medal was that of the Immaculate Conception, now
known everywhere as the 'Miraculous Medal.' On one side was a picture of Mary,
hands outstretched and the words 'O Mary, conceived without sin, pray for us
who have recourse to thee.' On the other was the Hearts of Jesus and Mary. Our
Blessed Mother asked Catherine to have medals made and devotion to the medal
spread. Our Lady told Catherine that wearers of the medal would receive great
graces, and its wearing and devotion has spread worldwide.

At the time, only her confessor, Father Aladel, knew of the apparitions and
instructions that Catherine Laboure was receiving. He helped her to have the
medals made and distributed, and kept her identity secret. Not until shortly
before her death in 1876, did anyone know the identity of the nun who had begun
the devotion. Saint Catherine Laboure died on 31 December 1876, just in time to
meet her prophecy that she would not be present in 1877. Her body was buried in
a crypt beneath their church and found to be incorrupt some fifteen years
later.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Experienced Families

A great many sources of information about Saint Catherine Laboure already
exist, well written and detailed accounts of the quiet nun from Burgundy who
brought the devotion to the Immaculate Conception and the Miraculous Medal to
the world. These can be found at:

  • Life of the Saint from Saint Catherine Laboure Church, Middleton, New
    Jersey
  • Catholic Encyclopedia
  • For the entire text of Saint Catherine Laboure of the Miraculous Medalby
    Fr. Joseph Dirvin.

                                  [marymedal]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Prayer:

O Lord Jesus Christ, You were pleased to gladden the holy Virgin Catherine by
the wonderful apparition of Your Immaculate Mother. Grant that we may follow
the example of the same saint in honouring Your most holy Mother with filial
devotion and obtain the joy of eternal life. Amen.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Return to Saints Page.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Copyright © 2010 Domestic Church Communications Ltd.
Send this page to a friend ...
Tell a Friend

dcc_book *

Christmas Store

                                  Valid CSS!

                         Valid XHTML 1.0 Transitional

