AsburyUMC – Memphis

"A Place For All People"

AsburyUMC – Memphis
Search [                    ] [Search]
Main menu

Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content

  • Home
  • Sermons
      □ Sermon Archive 2013
      □ Sermon Archive 2012
      □ Sermon Archive 2011
  • Contact
  • About
  • Conference News
  • OneHarvest
  • Calendar
  • Menu Item
  • Aldersgate UMC

Welcome to Asbury!

Featured

Posted on March 18, 2015 by laney

Asbury is a multicultural church serving the Fox Meadows and Hickory Hill
communities in Southeast Memphis. It’s a place for all people to become
disciples of Jesus Christ for the transformation of the world.

Searching for understanding? Feel like you’re missing a connection? Do you have
religion vs spirituality struggles? Let’s celebrate answers together! Join us
on Sunday mornings for worship and fellowship.

Asbury is blessed to be apart of a cooperative parish with two other churches
in the community.  El Redemptor (click here) is committed to serving the
Hispanic community with worship devices at Asbury.  Aldersgate UMC (click here)
 is also a partner in bringing the word of God to our community, with service
at 11:30 a.m. located on Willow.

Sunday Meeting Times

8:45 a.m. Sunday School for all ages

10:00 a.m. Traditional Worship in the Sanctuary

Nursery Available 8:45 a.m. – 11:45 a.m.

 

Dr. Virginia Jones Finzel, Pastor / Parish Director 

Rev. Goyo de la Cruz, Parish Outreach Minister

We hope to see you soon!

 

 

 WEEKLY BIBLE STUDY!

Now you will have two opportunities to attend each week, as best fits your
schedule. We will meet at Asbury each Wednesday at 10 a.m., with meetings at
Aldersgate each Thursday at 10 a.m., and all members of both churches are
invited to attend either session.

 

asbury at night

Posted in News

Prayer Walk on Monday Nights

Posted on April 17, 2015 by Karen

Praying-handsWe would like to invite everyone to join us for a weekly prayer
walk.  Each Monday night, at 6 p.m., we will meet at the church.  All ages are
invited to walk alone or in groups, moving and praying at your own pace.  We
will walk on church grounds, weather permitting, but we will walk inside as
necessary.  There is no need to sign up, just come and join us!

 

 

Posted in News

Follow Us!

Follow Us on FacebookFollow Us on RSS

Navigation

Homepage & Asbury News

Other Pages

  • Gift Wrap
  • Memphis Conference News
  • Pastors Pondering
  • Calendar
  • Contact Asbury
  • About Asbury
  • OneHarvest Food Ministries

Log In

Proudly powered by WordPress
