                      Charles Hodge and His Objection to
                Darwinism: The Exclusion of Intelligent Design
          A Case Study of American Anti-Darwinism in the Late 1800's
                                        
                                        
                                 Matthew Ropp
                                        
                                        
                                        
                        CH506, American Church History
                       Dr. Nathan Feldmeth, Winter 1997
                Fuller Theological Seminary, School of Theology
                                        

                               Table of Contents

    Table of Contents
    Introduction
    Background

        Hodge's Life and Career
        Hodge's Philosophical and Theological Background
        Charles Darwin's Theory

    Hodge's Case Against Darwinism

        Systematic Theology
        What is Darwinism?

    Conclusion
    Notes
    References Cited
    Appendix A - Engraving of Charles Hodge

                                 Introduction

    There were varied reactions among Christians to the theories of evolution
and natural selection presented by Charles Darwin and his supporters in the mid
to late 1800's. These included four basic responses: to accept Darwin's
theories and abandon Christianity; to argue against his theories because they
contradicted Christianity; to embrace both Darwin and Christianity, changing
neither^1; or to embrace Darwinism, but modify, misunderstand, or misinterpret
it in order to remain Christian (Moore 1979:113-117). One of the most important
Christian anti-Darwinism responses was by Charles Hodge, professor and
theologian at Princeton Theological Seminary. It is the nature of his response
that is the subject of this paper: Charles Hodge's critique of Darwinism was
based on his central objection that Darwin's theories excluded intelligent
design from any part of natural selection or evolution. Therefore, to Hodge,
Darwinism was in effect atheism and by its very nature incompatible with
Christianity.

(return to  Table of Contents)

                                  Background

    Before considering the main argument, it is both necessary and interesting
to first review Charles Hodge's life and career, his philosophical and
theological background, and the publications and theories of Charles Darwin.
 

                            Hodge's Life and Career

    Charles Hodge was born to Hugh and Mary Hodge in Philadelphia in December
1797. His father died within six months, leaving him and his two year old
brother in the care of his mother alone. She did an excellent job, according to
Hodge, providing for both her sons' collegiate and professional education
training through hard times. He was raised a Presbyterian and made a public
expression of his faith, joining the church, in his last year at The College of
New Jersey. After a year of rest, he entered Princeton Theological Seminary and
studied under Dr. Archibald Alexander, graduating in 1819. He was soon licensed
to preach by the Presbytery of Philadelphia and returned to Princeton as a
professor of the Original Languages of Scripture the next year and was ordained
in 1821 (A.A. Hodge 1880:7-10,30,39,46,67,75,85-86).

    He transferred to the chair of systematic theology in 1840 upon the partial
retirement of Dr. Alexander (A.A. Hodge 1880:321). Here he would have great
influence. From chairs of exegetical, didactic, and polemical theology in
Princeton Theological Seminary, "Hodge propagated the most powerful forces in
behalf of conservative Christianity which then prevailed among the American
churches." He was founder and editor for over forty years of The Biblical
Repertory, later renamed The Princeton Review. This journal was full of
polemical articles arguing the case of Presbyterian theology (Moore 1979:203).
Hodge was loved and deeply respected by both his students and contemporaries
(A.A. Hodge 1880:453-459,547).
 
(return to Table of Contents)
 
 

               Hodge's Philosophical and Theological Background

    Hodge's philosophy combined the inductive method of Francis Bacon with the
Scottish Common Sense philosophy of Thomas Reid and Dugald Stewart. These were
then combined with a strict biblicism and confessionalism (of Presbyterian
doctrine) (Hewitt 1991:55). "To Hodge and his colleagues at Princeton the
acquisition of truth in science and theology depended on strict adherence to
the Baconian method." (Moore 1979:204) In his introduction to his Systematic
Theology, Hodge states, "The Bible is to the theologian what nature is to the
man of science." Hodge believed that everything revealed in nature concerning
God is "contained and authenticated in Scripture." Therefore the Bible is the
true basis of faith and Christian knowledge (C. Hodge 1872:vol. 1,10-11). He
distinguished sharply between facts, which were absolutely true, and theories
or doctrines based on those facts, which may be mistaken in both science and
religion.

(return to Table of Contents)
 
 

                            Charles Darwin's Theory

    As a result of his observations while traveling around the world on the
H.M.S. Beagle and after over twenty years of further study and refinement,
Charles Darwin published his theory regarding the origin of species in 1859 in
a work titled The Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection: or the
Preservation of Favored Races in the Struggle for Life (Feldmeth 1996).
Darwin's theory was based on several natural laws which can be summarized as:
Growth with Reproduction; Inheritance "which is almost implied by reproduction;
" Variability; and "a Ratio of Increase so high as to lead to a Struggle for
Life, and as a consequence to Natural Selection, entailing Divergence of
Character and the Extinction of less improved forms." (Darwin 1896:vol. 2,305)
As a result of Natural Selection, through gradual "Divergence of Character,"
Darwin accounts for the origin of species. In 1871 Darwin published The Descent
of Man, in which he extended his theory to explicitly account for the origins
of humankind (Feldmeth 1996).
 
(return to Table of Contents)
 
 

                        Hodge's Case Against Darwinism

    In evaluating Darwinism, Hodge read at least three of Darwin's major works,
The Origin of Species, The Descent of Man, and The Variation of Animals and
Plants Under Domestication. Hodge quotes extensively from these works in his
critiques and he represents Darwin's theory with sufficient accuracy (Wells
1988:85-86). Hodge dealt with Darwinism in two major publications. The first of
these was as part of his Systematic Theology in 1872.
 

                              Systematic Theology

    Hodge's critique of Darwinism is part of his Anthropology section in volume
2 of Systematic Theology. This section begins with an explanation of the
"Scriptural Doctrine" regarding the origin of mankind. He points out two things
from the scriptural account in Genesis; first that man's body was formed by the
immediate intervention of God and secondly, that his soul was derived from God.
It as one of the subsections under "Anti-Scriptural Theories" that Hodge
considers Darwinism (C. Hodge 1872:vol. 2,1-12).

    Hodge acknowledges Darwin's status as a prominent naturalist and for his
knowledge and skill in observation and description, as well as his "frankness
and fairness." He states that his theory, however, suffers from the basic
defect of attributing "all the infinite diversities and marvelous organisms of
plants and animals   are due to the operation of unintelligent physical
causes." Then the principles of the Darwinian theory are summarized: first,
that like begets like; second, the law of variation; third, increase of plants
and animals giving rise to a continuous and universal struggle for life; and
fourth, in this struggle the fittest survive. This fourth principle is "natural
selection," that nature "without intelligence or purpose" selects the
individuals best adapted to continue and to improve the race. By the operation
of these principles in the course of "countless ages" all the many forms of
life have come (Ibid.:vol. 2,12-14).

    Following his explanation of the Darwinian theory, Hodge makes four remarks
regarding it. First, it shocks common sense to be told that "the whale and the
humming-bird, man and the mosquito," are derived from the same source. Second,
the theory cannot be true because it is founded on the assumption of an
impossibility: that matter does the work of mind. Here Hodge is arguing design.
His objection is that Darwin argues against the intervention of mind (a
designer) anywhere in the process and that this is incredible. Thirdly, (and a
corollary to the second remark) "the system is thoroughly atheistic and
therefore cannot possibly stand." Darwin posits that God has had nothing to do
with the universe since the creation of (a) living germ(s), and to Hodge, this
is tantamount to atheism.^2 Hodge continues to argue here extensively that
Darwinism excludes design. He says that this is "explicitly and repeatedly"
asserted and argued for and the opposite view ridiculed and rejected. "His book
was hailed as the death-blow of teleology."^3 Hodge's fourth remark is that the
theory is a mere hypothesis, and incapable of proof by its very nature
(Ibid.:vol. 2,14-22).

    Hodge's consideration continues by summarizing seven theories of the
universe. Herein only the third (Darwin's) and seventh (Scriptural) will be
examined. The third view, which Hodge called "speculative," is that of Darwin
and his associates who admit the creation of living matter "in the form of one
or a few primordial germs." Darwin's theory, despite admitting a creator, is
however anti-teleological and atheistic:

     from [one or a few primordial germs] without any purpose or design, by the
    slow operation of unintelligent natural causes, and accidental variations,
    during untold ages, all the orders, classes, genera, species, and varieties
    of plants and animals, from the lowest to the highest, man included, have
    been formed. Teleology, and therefore mind, or God, is expressly banished
    from the world.

The seventh and final theory presented is the Scriptural doctrine. This
doctrine teaches three things: 1) That the universe and all it contains owe
their existence to the will and power of God; 2) God endowed matter with
properties which He upholds and works in accordance with, "using them
everywhere and constantly;" 3) That in the beginning God created every distinct
species of plant and animal. Darwinism is merely an arraying of probabilities
against these teachings of scripture (Ibid.:vol. 2,22-27).

    Lastly Hodge discusses the many difficulties in his theory which Darwin
admits. He complements Darwin on his candor in acknowledging these grave
objections. Of these objections, there are several. Of concern here is the
objection that the theory assumes "that matter does the work of mind, that
design is accomplished without any designer," regarding which Hodge says Mr.
Darwin is equally candid. He quotes Darwin as saying that this difficulty
appears "' to our imagination insuperably great'" and that natural selection
could form an organ so perfect as the eye "'is more than enough to stagger any
one [sic].'" "Mr. Darwin refuses to be staggered by that which he says is
enough to stagger any one [sic]." (Ibid.:vol. 2,27-28)
 
(return to Table of Contents)
 
 

                              What is Darwinism?

    While working on his more refined treatise on Darwinism to be published the
next year, Charles Hodge attended the General Conference of the Evangelical
Alliance in October of 1873. The fifth day of the conference several papers
were presented regarding the theory of "Development" as presented by Darwin and
others. After the first paper of the day an extemporaneous debate regarding the
theory arose. Hodge was one of those who spoke out. He wanted to know of Dr.
Brown, who advocated the theory, the answer to one simple question, "I want him
to tell us what development is  Is development an intellectual process guided
by God, or is it a blind process of unintelligent, unconscious force, gravity,
electricity, and such like?" Brown responded, but not did not really address
Hodge's question directly. Later in the day, Hodge stated what he thought
Darwinism to be:

    My idea of Darwinism is that it teaches that all the forms of vegetable and
    animal life, including man and all the organs of the human body, are the
    result of unintelligent, undesignating [sic]^4 forces; and that the human
    eye was formed by mere unconscious action. Now, according to my idea, that
    is a denial of what the Bible teaches, of what reason teaches, and of what
    the conscience of any human being teaches for it is impossible for any such
    organ as the eye to be formed by blind forces. It excludes God; it excludes
    intelligence from every thing (Schaff and Prime 1874: 317-320).

    What is Darwinism? The question not sufficiently answered, that is what
Hodge set out to clarify in his work with that title. While many of his
arguments are similar to those in Systematic Theology, What is Darwinism?
reflects Hodge's more mature position regarding the issues. His basic argument
that Darwinism denies design and thus God remains the same.

    The book begins by explaining various other theories of the universe,
including the scriptural view, pantheism, the Epicurean view, Herbert Spencer's
philosophy, the Hylozoic theory, "theism in unscriptural forms," and comes last
to Darwin. He describes the nature of Darwin's work as not purporting to be
philosophical but simply as a naturalist to answer one question: "How are the
fauna and flora of our earth to be accounted for?" In his solution, he assumes:
1) the existence of matter; 2) the efficiency of physical causes; 3) the
existence of life in the form of one or more "primordial germs"; 4) a Creator,
in order to account for the existence of life; 5) from the primordial germ or
germs all living organisms, vegetable and animal, have descended; 6) because
"growth, organization, and reproduction are the functions of physical life, as
soon as the primordial germ began to live, it began to grow, to fashion organs
however simple, for its nourishment and increase, and for the reproduction, in
some way, of living forms like itself." (C. Hodge 1894:3-28)
 
    How all living things on earth have descended from the primordial
animalcule, according to Hodge's fuller summary of Darwin, may be accounted for
by the following natural laws. First, the law of Heredity. Offspring are like
the parent. Second, the law of Variation. While the offspring are essentially
like their parent, they vary within narrow limits and these variations may be
indifferent, deteriorations, or improvements. Third, the law of Over
Production. All life tends to increase in a "geometric ratio," overrunning the
means of support. Only a few of those born can possibly live. Fourth, the law
of Natural Selection or Survival of the Fittest. If any individual of a given
species happens to have a slight derivation which is favorable to it in the
struggle for life, it will survive. This variation will be transmitted to its
offspring, and to its offspring's offspring, and so on. These favored ones soon
gain ascendancy, and the less fortunate do not survive. The modification
thereby becomes established in the species. Over time more variations result in
the species, and thus very gradually great changes of structure are introduced,
producing the species, genera, families, and orders of life in the animal and
vegetable kingdoms (Ibid.:26-30).

    Hodge then goes into a deeper discussion of what Darwin means by Natural
Selection. He finds the main idea of Darwin's system in the word "natural."
Darwin uses the word in two senses: "first, as antithetical to the word
artificial." Humans can produce very noticeable varieties in animals. This is
artificial selection. Darwin argues that if man has produced very many
varieties in a short time, what might nature accomplish over the "measureless
ages of the geologic periods." "Secondly, he uses the word natural as
antithetical to supernatural." Natural selection is made by natural laws,
working without any intention or design. It can therefore not be artificial
selection (by man), but also not supernatural selection, which is a selection
either "intended by a power higher than nature; or which is carried out by such
power." And so, when he says, "Natural Selection," it is Darwin's intention to
exclude design or final causes. All changes in structure, instinct, and
intelligence have been brought about by unintelligent physical causes
(Ibid.:40-42).

    Based on what he has hitherto said, Hodge then summarizes Darwinism as
including three distinct elements. First, evolution. Second, that this
evolution has taken place according to natural selection. Third, "and by far
the most important and only distinctive element of his theory," that this
natural selection is without design, taking place according to unintelligent
physical causes. Hodge reiterates once again that Darwin "rejects all
teleology" and "denies design in any of the organisms of the vegetable or
animal world." Having argued that Darwin explicitly denies design, Hodge sets
out to prove this. He begins by extensively quoting Darwin's own works for over
ten pages (Ibid.:48-64).

    Continuing his proof of Darwin's denial of theology, Hodge presents first
expositions of advocates of Darwin's theory: Russell Wallace, Professor Thomas
Huxley, Dr. Louis Bu:chner, Carl Vogt, and Professor Ernst Haeckel
(Ibid.:64-95). Huxley's testimony that Darwin's doctrine excludes all teleology
is explicit. Huxley is quoted: "' when he first read Mr. Darwin's book, that
which struck him most forcibly was the conviction that teleology, as commonly
understood, had received its death-blow at Mr. Darwin's hands.'" (Ibid.:78)
Hodge then turns to quote several who have opposed Darwin's theory: the Duke of
Argyll, the eminent naturalist Agassiz, Professor Paul Janet, M. Flourens, Rev.
Walter Mitchell, and Principal J. Dawson. He finds their view that Darwin does
indeed deny design both implicit and explicit in their objections
(Ibid.:96-125).

    Having made his main argument, before definitively answering the question
he has posed, Hodge considers a few other topics related to Darwinism. He
begins by discussing the relationship between Darwin's theory and religion^5.
He concedes that evolution is compatible with theism, if it admits design in
nature. He does not see "how the theory of evolution can be reconciled with the
declarations of the Scriptures." (Ibid.:141)

    He then states four additional objections to the theory. The first
objection is that Darwinism is, at first look, simply unbelievable. He cannot
(and thinks any reasonable man cannot) believe that all the plants and animals
that have ever existed on the earth have been evolved from one "germ". It is
also too incredible to believe the earth has existed for "millions, or
milliards" of years necessary for all this to take place. The second objection
is that "there is no pretence [sic] that the theory can be proved." All Darwin
claims is that it is possible. His third objection relates to Darwin's
rejection of design. He argues that the only thing really different in Darwin's
theory from previous theories of evolution which where completely rejected is
this rejection of teleology. Therefore, the only reason Darwin is supported by
its most zealot advocates is because he rejects design. It now fits with the
prevailing state of mind. Hodge's fourth and final objection to Darwinism is
the great amount of evidence in favor of the fixedness or immutability of
species (Ibid.:142-151).

    He begins his elaboration of this objection by defining "species." The
distinctions between many varieties of related animals which zoologists, for
the convenience of classification, call distinct species are artificial.
Species should be defined as "primordial organic forms" which have not evolved
out of any other form, but have been in the same form (subject to varieties
such as we see in dogs, horses, et cetera) throughout history. That there are
such forms in nature is proved by many facts. First, species are known to have
existed unchanged through almost immeasurable periods of time. A second fact is
that every species as it originally appears is not in a transition state, but
in its perfect form. Third, historical evidence points to the immutability of
species - the earliest records prove that all extent animals "were what they
are now thousands of years ago." Fourth, the fact that hybrids cannot be
perpetuated. They are sterile. Fifth are three stumbling blocks in the way of
science: the origin of life, the origin of consciousness, and the origin of
reason. These are equivalent to the gaps in the theory of evolution. These gaps
are: that between dead and living matter, that between vegetable and animal
life, and that between one species and another. "'Another gap is between the
nature of the animal and the self-conscious, reasoning, and moral nature of
man.'" (Ibid.:151-165).

    Summing up, Hodge restates what he takes to be the most important features
of Darwinian evolution: "All the innumerable varieties of plants, all the
countless forms of animals, with all their instincts and faculties, all the
varieties of men with their intellectual endowments, and their moral and
religious nature, have, according to Darwin, been evolved by the agency of the
blind, unconscious laws of nature." Hodge's "grand and fatal objection to
Darwinism" is this exclusion of design in the origin of species. Hodge defines
design to be "the intelligent and voluntary selection of an end, and the
intelligent and voluntary choice, application, and control of means appropriate
to the accomplishment of that end." That design implies intelligence is part of
its very nature. "The conclusion of the whole matter is, that the denial of
design in nature is virtually the denial of God  We have thus arrived at the
answer to our question, What is Darwinism? It is Atheism." (Ibid.:168-177)
 
(return to Table of Contents)
 
 

                                  Conclusion

    From the above overview of his writings, that Hodge's main objection to
Darwinism was its exclusion of design is clear. That he considered this
exclusion as excluding God and therefore atheistic and incompatible with
Christianity is also clear. Were Hodge's conclusions valid? In Charles Hodge's
Critique of Darwinism, Jonathan Wells, himself a professed believer in
evolution^6, evaluates Hodge's arguments and conclusions, as well as the
validity of Hodge representing mainstream Christianity of the period. He
confirms both that Hodge was correct in his understanding of Darwinism (as
defined by Darwin himself) and Christianity (as the mainstream theology
throughout its history has understood it) as fundamentally incompatible and
that Hodge did accurately represent Christian theological tradition as a whole
(Wells 1988:215-223).
 
 (return to Table of Contents)
 
 

                                     Notes

^1 An untenable position, as will be shown.
^2 Hodge does make the distinction between Mr. Darwin and his theory.  Darwin
is a theist, while his theory is atheistic.
^3 Teleology is defined by Webster as "a belief   that natural phenomena are
determined not only by mechanical causes but by an over-all design or purpose
in nature."
^4 The account should doubtlessly read "undesigning."
^5 By this he means Christian religion.  It is puzzling that after so clearly
distinguishing between Darwinism and evolution earlier, here Hodge purports to
consider the relationship between it and Christianity but actually proceeds by
considering the relationship between evolution and Christianity.
^6 But not Darwinism.
 
(return to Table of Contents)
 
 

                               References Cited

Darwin, Charles
  1896    The Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection: or the
Preservation of Favored Races in the Struggle for Life. 6^th edition. 2 vols.
New York: D. Appleton and Company.

Feldmeth, Nathan
  1996    "American Church History," CH506, lecture: "The Attack Upon
Orthodoxy". Pasadena, California: Fuller Theological Seminary, School of
Theology.

Hewitt, Glenn A.
  1991    Regeneration and Morality. Brooklyn, New York: Carlson Publishing
Inc.

Hodge, Archibald A.
  1880    The Life of Charles Hodge D.D. LL.D. New York: Charles Scribner's
Sons.

Hodge, Charles
  1872-73    Systematic Theology. 3 vols. Reprint. New York: Charles Scribner's
Sons, 1891.
  1874    What is Darwinism? New York: Scribner, Armstrong, and Company.

Moore, James R.
  1979    The Post Darwinian Controversies. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.

Schaff, Philip, and S. Iraneus Prime, eds.
  1874    History, Essays, Orations, and other Documents of the Sixth General
Conference of the Evangelical Alliance, Held in New York, October 2-12, 1873.
New York: Harper & Brothers.

Wells, Jonathan
  1988    Charles Hodge's Critique of Darwinism. Lewiston, New York: The Edwin/
Mellen Press.

(return to Table of Contents)
 
 

                    Appendix A - Engraving of Charles Hodge

                                    [Hodge]
 

 Return to Table of Contents

 Return to paper index

 home
 
