Mission Independent Baptist Church

  • Home
  • Our Pastor
  • About M.I.B.C.
  • Services
  • Missionaries
  • Church Ministries and Member
  • Upcoming Events
  • Photo Gallery
  • Out of Dragon's Mouth
  • Guestbook
  • Quotes
  • Ministry Opportunities

Passionately Pursuing GOD Together... Phil 3:10

CHURCH BUILDING:

   We now have a new Location for our church Mission Independent Baptist Church
1766 W Devon Ave Chicago, IL 60660 773-267-9132 Sundays 10AM & Fridays 7 PM
FortChicag@aol.com missionary/pastor Edward Fort

""" Note of importance: We do not endorse all of the headline banner adds.
Actually some are of Satan denying the Triune Godhead . We are Baptist and
Fundamental in our doctrine, not Liberal and progressive. EF :-)

You will find Mission Independent Baptist Church is a Bible-centered ministry
in a warm and caring fellowship of believers. In an increasingly complicated
world it is our goal to make the truths of Scripture simple and apply to
everyday living.

We believe the Bible is sufficient to meet the need of every human heart and
life. We believe that God designed the local church to be a place of teaching,
discipling , equipping and encouragement of the saints of God. Everyone in the
Family of God should be members of the local New Testament Baptist Church. 

At MIBC we have a passion for God and His Word. We believe the greatest
pleasure is coming to know Jesus Christ and growing in His grace.

If there is some way we can help or if you have any questions about the
ministries of our church please visit one of our services or contact us via
email or call us or schedule a pastor visit your home. Thanks again for
visiting our website.

Edward Fort Missionary/Pastor

Contact Info:

Mission Independent Baptist Church

 Meeting at 1766 W Devon AVe. (6400N&1800W) --storefront

Chicago, Illinois 60660    Friday Nights at 7 PM / Sunday Mornings 10 AM & 3:30
PM

Missionary/Pastor Edward Fort  Fortchicag@aol.com  (773) 267-9132

*Exclusively Baptist

*Fundamental

*Independent

*Unaffiliated

*KJV

*Separated

*Soul-Winning - God does the winning, We do the witnessing. No high pressure
Madison Ave Sales Techniques

*Missionary

*Evangelistic-  

We welcome people from all Creeds, Colors, Religions, Languages and People
Groups to come to church. English Speaking and NON-English Speaking. We have
Bibles, Portions, Tracts and Tapes in many World Languages to help reach the
many peoples of the world with the Gospel of Jesus Christ.

   Our church may not be for you but we will graciously direct you to another
church if we can so you can find service for the Lord and fellowship with the
saved. We fight sin and satan and try to love the brethren even if we sometimes
strongly disagree on a FEW issues.(( We can disagree without being disagreeable
)). We stand unapologetically for the King James Bible and holiness. We are
fighers for the Truth.--We don't do it with sticks, bottles, swords and guns--
We fight with God's Holy Word the King James Bible.--We attack with the
Authority of God's word showing others what God's word says.--GOD SAYS IT AND
THAT SETTLES IT WHETHER WE BELIEVE IT OR NOT. We do not force others to believe
as we do but give them the opportunity to see what the scriptures say and then
make their own decisions based on God's word the Bible. Our desire is to see
every blood washed child of God get into his or her bible and allow God to
direct them to total dedication and service for Him. It's all about Jesus not
us. SO if it is service in our church we rejoice and if it is service in a
sister church then so be it. Glory to God!

[counter]

Mission Independent Baptist Church Chicago ©

