[fcpc-logoW]
Skip to content

  • Home
  • Our Church
      □ Our Pastor
      □ Pastors Desk
      □ Church History
  • Sermons
  • Sports
      □ Centershot Archery
      □ Upward Sports
  • FCPC Youth
      □ Breakaway
      □ 180 Youth
  • News
  • Contact

worship-slide
Latest Message
Maintaining an effective and Christ-like witness in a world that seems to be
falling apart.  Philippians 2:12-17closePhilippians 2:12-17 Lights in the World
12 Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now, not only as in my
presence but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and
trembling, 13 for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his
good pleasure. 14 Do all things without grumbling or questioning, 15 that you
may be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish in the midst of
a crooked and twisted generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world, 
16 holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I may be
proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain. 17 Even if I am to be poured
out as a drink offering upon the sacrificial offering of your faith, I am glad
and rejoice with you all. (ESV) closePhilippians 2:12-17closePhilippians
2:12-17 Lights in the World 12 Therefore, my beloved, as you have always
obeyed, so now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work
out your own salvation with fear and trembling, 13 for it is God who works in
you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. 14 Do all things without
grumbling or questioning, 15 that you may be blameless and innocent, children
of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among
whom you shine as lights in the world, 16 holding fast to the word of life, so
that in the day of Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in
vain. 17 Even if I am to be poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrificial
offering of your faith, I am glad and rejoice with you all. (ESV) Lights in the
World 12 Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now, not only as
in my presence but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with
fear and trembling, 13 for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work
for his good pleasure. 14 Do all things without grumbling or questioning, 15 
that you may be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish in the
midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among whom you shine as lights in
the world, 16 holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I
may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain. 17 Even if I am to be
poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrificial offering of your faith, I
am glad and rejoice with you all. (ESV) [movfront]
Get Directions

Worship ~ Serve ~ Grow ~ Connect

  • 
      □ worship-slide

        Worship

  • 
      □  

         

  • RSS Verse of the Day

  • Welcome!

    Whether you're new to town or just new to our church, WE WELCOME YOU and
    hope that our services help you in your walk with Jesus Christ. Our hope is
    to connect each person to a family of committed followers of Christ. We
    hope to encourage you to worship God in a variety of ways; to serve out of
    your giftedness in our church, community and around the world; to grow in
    your personal walk with God and invite others to be a part of what God is
    doing in your life. If you're wondering "What do I do now?" a great next
    step would be to get with our pastor or one of our elders so that we can
    help you get plugged in to the life of our church. We have several small
    groups and numerous ministries of our church that could just possibly be
    the very opportunity you need to deepen your faith. If you'd like to know
    more about becoming a Christian, being baptized or becoming a member of
    FCPC, or maybe you just need someone to come along side of you during the
    storms of life, our pastor would love to talk with you. We hope your time
    with us will be blessed.

  • Follow Us!

    Follow Us on FacebookFollow Us on YouTube
  • Recent Posts

      □ Church Bulletin/01-03-16

        January 6, 2016
      □ Church Bulletin 12/06/15

        December 8, 2015
  • Latest News

      □ churchfront Church Bulletin/01-03-16
        On January 6, 2016 in Church Bulletin, Upcoming Events
      □ jesushopeforhumanity Church Bulletin/12/13/15
        On December 14, 2015 in Church Bulletin, Current Events
      □ jesushopeforhumanity Church Bulletin 12/06/15
        On December 8, 2015 in Church Bulletin, Upcoming Events

Close
Need Driving Directions? Click here

  • Our Service Times

    Sunday Morning Fellowship at 8:30 A.M.
    Sunday School at 9:00 A.M.
    Sunday Worship at 10:00 A.M.
    Wednesday Nights at 5:30 P.M.

Fairfield Cumberland Presbyterian Church (C) (2016)
Proudly Designed by Nashville Geek.
