bg image(../parchment.jpg)
           John Chrysostom, Bishop of Antioch and of Constantinople,
                        Preacher, Theologian, Liturgist
                                27 January 407

John was called "Chrysostom" ("Golden Mouth") because of his eloquence. He was
a priest of Antioch, and an outstanding preacher. (Audiences were warned not to
carry large sums of money when they went to hear him speak, since pickpockets
found it very easy to rob his hearers -- they were too intent on his words to
notice what was happening.) His sermons are mostly straightforward expositions
of Holy Scripture (he has extensive commentaries on both Testaments, with
special attention to the Epistles of Paul), and he emphasizes the literal
meaning, whereas the style popular at Alexandria tended to read allegorical
meanings into the text.

He loved the city and people of Antioch, and they loved him. However, he became
so famous that the Empress at Constantinople decided that she must have him for
her court preacher, and she had him kidnapped and brought to Constantinople and
there made bishop. This was a failure all around. His sermons against
corruption in high places earned him powerful enemies (including the Empress),
and he was sent into exile, where he died.

Along with Athanasius of Alexandria, Basil the Great, and Gregory of Nazianzus,
he is counted as one of the Four Great Eastern (or Greek) Doctors of the
Ancient Church. The Four Great Western (or Latin) Doctors are Ambrose, Jerome,
Augustine, and Gregory the Great.

Prayers (traditional language)

    O God, who didst give to thy servant John Chrysostom grace eloquently to
    proclaim thy righteousness in the great congregation, and fearlessly to
    bear reproach for the honor of thy Name: Mercifully grant to all bishops
    and pastors such excellency in preaching, and fidelity in ministering thy
    Word, that thy people shall be partakers with them of the glory that shall
    be revealed; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with
    thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.

Prayers (contemporary language)

    O God, who gave to your servant John Chrysostom grace eloquently to
    proclaim your righteousness in the great congregation, and fearlessly to
    bear reproach for the honor of your Name: Mercifully grant to all bishops
    and pastors such excellency in preaching, and fidelity in ministering your
    Word, that your people shall be partakers with them of the glory that shall
    be revealed; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you
    and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.

Psalm 49:1-8 or 34:15-22
Jeremiah 1:4-10
Luke 21:12-15 (St2)
