 

  • [fader_01]

  • [fader_02]

  • [fader_03]

  • [fader_04]

  • [fader_05]

  • [fader_06]

  • Home
  • About Cabrini
      □ MSC - Stella Maris Province
      □ Our Cabrini Legacy
      □ Mission
      □ President's Message
      □ Principal's Message
      □ Location
      □ Board of Trustees
      □ Directions
      □ Phone & Fax Numbers
      □ Contact Us
      □ Parents' Association
      □ Dads' Club
      □ Crescent Cradle
  • Academics
      □ Curriculum
          ☆ Academic Facts & Highlights
          ☆ Required Courses & Electives
          ☆ Advanced Placement (AP)
          ☆ English Course Offerings
          ☆ Mathematics Course Offerings
          ☆ Science Course Offerings
          ☆ Social Studies Course Offerings
          ☆ Classical Studies Course Offerings
          ☆ Foreign Language Course Offerings
          ☆ Religion Course Offerings
          ☆ Business Course Offerings
          ☆ Fine Arts Course Offerings
          ☆ Physical Education Course Offerings
          ☆ Library & Computer Resources
      □ Academic Word List
      □ SAT Test Prep Question of the Day
      □ PSAT High Freqency Words
      □ Online Bookstore
      □ Faculty/Staff Alphabetical
      □ Faculty Credentials
      □ Faculty Office Hours
      □ Edline
      □ Library
          ☆ Guide for Cabrini High Internet Users
          ☆ Library Policies and Procedures
          ☆ Louisiana Library Connection
          ☆ Guide for Using Louisiana Library Connection
          ☆ Louisiana Library Connection Databases
          ☆ Accelerated Reader Book Finder Title List
          ☆ Accelerated Reader Tests
          ☆ American Memories
          ☆ C-SPAN Classroom Clips and Resources
          ☆ Encyclopedia Louisiana
          ☆ EZ Bib
          ☆ Federal Government Search Engine
          ☆ Free Classic Audio Books
          ☆ High Beam Encyclopedia
          ☆ INFOTRAC/Gale Databases
          ☆ LOUIS
          ☆ Louisiana Public Broadcasting
          ☆ Online Books Page
          ☆ Online Reading Club
          ☆ Proquest Research Library
          ☆ SIRS Database
          ☆ Statistical Abstracts of the United States
          ☆ United Streaming
          ☆ Virtual Field Trips List
          ☆ Virtual Field Trips List on Education World
          ☆ Website Evaluation Techniques
          ☆ World Factbook
      □ Cabrini Online Bookstore
  • Admissions
      □ Join Our Mailing List
      □ How to Apply/Timeline
      □ Financial Information
          ☆ Scholarships
          ☆ Registration
      □ Spend the Day
      □ Contact Us
      □ Cabrini Application for Admission
      □ Cabrini Application for Admission (Electronic Version)
      □ Archdiocesan High School Application
      □ Recruitment Brochure
      □ Ask a Crescent
      □ Open House Video
      □ LA School Tuition & Expense Tax Deduction
  • Alumnae
      □ Alumnae Calendar
      □ Alumnae Events
          ☆ Grad Years 0 & 5
          ☆ Grad Years 1 & 6
          ☆ Grad Years 2 & 7
          ☆ Grad Years 3 & 8
          ☆ Grad Years 4 & 9
      □ Reunions
      □ Alumnae Board
      □ Alumna of the Year
      □ Alumnae Legacy Scholarship
      □ Alumnae Association
      □ Vanessa Lauren Wolff Scholarship
      □ Alumnae Class Agents
      □ Alumnae: Contact Us
      □ Yearbook Archive
  • Athletics
      □ Basketball
          ☆ 2015-2016 Basketball Schedule
          ☆ 2015-2016 Basketball Roster
      □ Bowling
      □ Cross Country
          ☆ 2015 Cross Country Roster
          ☆ 2015 Cross Country Schedule
      □ Soccer
          ☆ 2015-2016 Soccer Schedule
          ☆ 2015-2016 Soccer Roster
          ☆ 2015-2016 Varsity Soccer Numerical Roster
      □ Softball
          ☆ 2015 Softball Schedule
      □ Swimming
          ☆ 2015 Swim Team Roster
          ☆ 2015 Swim Schedule
          ☆ Swimming Record Book
      □ Track & Field
      □ Volleyball
          ☆ 2015 Volleyball Schedule
          ☆ 2015 Volleyball Roster
          ☆ 2015 Varsity Volleyball Numerical Roster
      □ Athletic Handbook
      □ LHSAA Athletic Participation/Parental Permission Form
      □ LHSAA Medical Evaluation Form
      □ LHSAA Substance Abuse Misconduct Contract
  • Edline
  • Formation
      □ Guidance
          ☆ AP Online Scores
          ☆ Family Connections Login
      □ Service Sites
          ☆ Pre-Freshmen, Freshmen & Sophomores
          ☆ Juniors & Seniors
      □ Service Requirements
      □ Spirituality
          ☆ Am I a Little Violet?
          ☆ Catholic Relief Services
          ☆ Cabrini Swazi Missions
      □ Service Hour Opportunities
      □ Distinguished Educator Award
          ☆ 2014 Distingusted Educator Award
          ☆ 2013 Distinguished Educator Award
          ☆ 2012 Distinguished Educator Award
          ☆ 2011 Distinguished Educator Award
          ☆ 2010 Distinguished Educator Award
          ☆ 2009 Distinguished Educator Award
      □ Who was Captain Salvator Pizzati?
      □ Mother Cabrini Week 2015
      □ Mass Request Form
  • Campus Life
      □ Clubs & Activities
          ☆ Cabrini Club Booklet
          ☆ Chamber Ensemble
          ☆ Cheerleaders
              ○ 2015 Cheerleading Roster
          ☆ Dance Team
          ☆ Student Council
          ☆ Pro-Life Club
      □ Traditions
          ☆ Alma Mater
      □ A Crescent's Perspective
          ☆ Cam & Becca's Breaking News
          ☆ The Rachel & Catherine Rewind
          ☆ What's Happening, Heather?
          ☆ Lisa's Letters
      □ Keeping Up With the Crescents
      □ Ask a Crescent
      □ Faculty Flash Mob
      □ Cabrini Broadcasting Network (CBN)
          ☆ Current Broadcasts
          ☆ CBN Archives
      □ Create a Cabrini Icon
      □ Service Learning Projects
          ☆ 8th Grade
          ☆ 10th Grade
          ☆ 11th Grade
          ☆ 12th Grade
      □ Cabrini Gift Ideas
      □ Bell Schedule
      □ Cafeteria Menu
      □ Calendar 2015-2016
      □ Publications
      □ Virtual Tour

  • Slideshows
  • Calendar 2015-2016
  • News
  • Saint Frances Cabrini Shrine
  • Join Our Mailing List
  • Archives
  • Contact Us
  • Cabrini Weekly Update
  • MSC Schools

Donate To Cabrini Click Here for Admissions Info Click Here To Order
Pro Life Mass with Archbishop Aymond

Tuesday, 12 January 2016 21:34
Cabrini Pro Life Mass with Archbishop AymondArchbishop Gregory Michael Aymond
celebrated our first community Mass of the New Year at Our Lady of the Rosary
Church. Click the picture to see a slideshow from Mass.

FacebookFacebookTwitterTwitter

 

Winter Formal 2016

Tuesday, 12 January 2016 19:45
heartThe Sweetheart Ball

Southport Hall
200 Monticello Ave.
New Orleans, LA 70121

Friday, January 15^th
8 - 11pm, lock-in from 9 - 10:30pm

Tickets sold at the door!
Single ticket: $20
Couple ticket: $40

Click here to view photo package options

Dress Code:

GIRLS

  • Dresses must be formal, short or long, appropriately fitting and modest.
  • Hemlines for dresses must be no shorter than 3 inches above the knee.
  • Slits in dresses must be no shorter than 3 inches above the knee.
  • No immodest bare-backs, low necklines, visible midriffs or cut-outs below
    the traditional bra line.
  • Dress shoes—no sandals (flip-flops), tennis shoes, boots, or slippers
  • No hats, bandannas, or headwear of any kind.
  • No pierced body parts are to be visible except the ear lobe

BOYS

  • Dress slacks, sports coat or suit and traditional tie.
  • Traditional dress shirt—no banded shirts. Shirts must be tucked in at all
    times.
  • Dress shoes and dress socks.
  • No hats, bandannas, or head wear of any kind.
  • No pierced body parts are to be visible.

Anyone who, in the moderator’s judgment is dressed inappropriately will not be
allowed in the dance.  Students may not enter the dance with props,
accessories, knapsacks, book bags, or glow sticks (including mouthpieces).

Behavior: Host students are responsible for their behavior and that of their
dates.  Guests must act in accordance with the rules of the host school. 
Students who violate these rules will be subject to having their school ID
confiscated and returned to their home school.

Anyone who violates the rules of good conduct, brings alcoholic beverages, or
drugs to the dance, or exhibits behavior showing the effects of alcohol or
drugs will be subject to disciplinary action.

 

FacebookFacebookTwitterTwitter

 

Eclipse Dances at Alamo Bowl

Tuesday, 12 January 2016 17:31
Cabrini Eclipse Dance Team at Alamo BowlThe Cabrini Eclipse Dance Team was one
of thirteen high schools from nine states that performed halftime at the Valero
Alamo Bowl in San Antonio on Saturday, January 2nd.

Click the photo to view a slideshow of the event!

 

FacebookFacebookTwitterTwitter

 

Senior Retreat

Tuesday, 12 January 2016 17:26
Cabrini Senior RetreatCabrini’s Senior Class of 2015 traveled to the Camp Abbey
in Covington, LA for their Senior Retreat. This year the retreat theme was
"Giving and Receiving God’s Love”. The retreat offered the seniors a chance to
enjoy the company of their classmates in a spiritual setting. Seniors
participated in activities, discussions, and also had time for personal
reflection.

Click the photo to view a slideshow of the event!

FacebookFacebookTwitterTwitter

 

Cabrini Initiates Lenten Rice Bowl Campaign with Lectures by Madagascar CRS
Manager

Monday, 11 January 2016 21:16
Cabrini High School will host Catholic Relieve Services Speaker Gabriella
Rakotomanga on campus Wednesday, February 3.

Cabrini, a CRS Platinum Global High School Partner, invited Rakotomanga to kick
off the school’s Lenten Rice Bowl offerings with a speech in the chapel.
Rakotamanga is native to Madagascar and the country’s Project Manager for CRS,
supervising humanitarian aid efforts in the island nation off the Southeast
coast of Africa. Ninety percent of Madagascar’s 23 million inhabitants are
impoverished, subsisting on less than $2 per day.

In her 25 years of service with CRS, Rakotamanga has held a variety of
supervisory positions, including a year as base manager and head of office for
the CRS response team in Sri Lanka after that country was devastated by a
tsunami in 2004. Rakotomanga will recount her efforts in Sri Lanka after one of
the worst natural disasters of this century, and her years in Madagascar
combating hunger and disease on behalf of Catholic Relief Services.

FacebookFacebookTwitterTwitter

 

Indoor Track News

Monday, 11 January 2016 14:03
Last Saturday at the Carl Maddox Fieldhouse on the LSU campus, Junior Lauren
Klemm recorded a PR in the 800m of 2:45.83, Her previous best was 2:50.22.
Lauren and other members of the Indoor Track team return to LSU on Saturday,
January 23.

FacebookFacebookTwitterTwitter

 

Fall Athletic Awards

Thursday, 07 January 2016 21:07
The Fall Athletic Awards will be held on Tuesday, January 12, 2016 in the gym
beginning at 7:00 p.m. The athletes who participated in the sports of
Volleyball, Swimming, and Cross Country will be recognized at this ceremony.
The athletes must wear their school blazer or their letterman jacket to this
ceremony. They are not allowed to wear their team jackets to this ceremony.

FacebookFacebookTwitterTwitter

 

Laird, Hepting, and Spencer Selected to Advocate and Times Picayune All Metro
New Orleans Teams

Tuesday, 29 December 2015 14:10
Cabrini Volleyball Coach Laird Bailey Hepting Rakell SpencerCabrini High School
volleyball coach Kasey Laird and teammates Bailey Hepting and Rakell Spencer
were selected by both the Advocate and Times Picayune to the All Metro New
Orleans Teams.

Laird'08 returned to coach the Crescents to the Division II state championship
game in her first year as head coach. The Crescents were Louisiana Division II
State Runners Up, finishing with a 28 -12 record against the top volleyball
programs in Louisiana. The senior tandem of Hepting and Spencer were the
mainstays of the Cabrini program during the 2015 campaign.

“We are so proud of Coach Laird, Bailey, and Rakell for being a great
representation of Cabrini athletics and the Volleyball program,” stated Janell
Bozant, Cabrini Athletic Director. “Their accomplishments are a result of
dedication, hard work, and the contagious enthusiasm they spread throughout the
entire Cabrini community.”

Cabrini Volleyball Rakell Spencer Coach Laird Bailey Hepting (l-r) Rakell
Spencer, Coach Laird, and Bailey Hepting are pictured at the All-State Awards
Ceremony

 

FacebookFacebookTwitterTwitter

 

Introducing...

Thursday, 27 August 2015 16:02
Cabrini Science Squad

What is Cabrini's Science Squad?

  • Hands-on science activities exploring Chemistry, Physics, Life and
    Environmental Sciences led by Cabrini science teachers and student
    assistants.
  • Choose from a variety of  topics, or request a topic and the Science Squad
    will do their best to accommodate you.

Invite the Science Squad to visit your class, or have your class visit the
Science Squad at Cabrini.

For information or to schedule a session, contact Ann Smart at This e-mail
address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view
it .

Click here to download the flyer!

FacebookFacebookTwitterTwitter

 



Wednesday, 13 January 2016 01:17
FacebookFacebookTwitterTwitter

 


[search...           ][Search]
Mother Cabrini Weekly Inspiration:Mother Cabrini Weekly Quote

  • Service Hour Opportunities
  • Super Science Saturday

Cabrini on Facebook Cabrini on Twitter Cabrini on LinkedIn Cabrini on YouTube

Cabrini High School • 1400 Moss Street • New Orleans, LA 70119-2904
Phone: (504) 482-1193 • Fax: (504) 483-8671 • admin@cabrinihigh.com

Cabrini High School does not discriminate on the basis of race, color,
national, or ethnic origin in the administration of its policies.

