ChurchYear.Net logo

What is Lent and the Lenten Season?

Lent History, Customs, Prayers, FAQ, Traditions, & More

               Lent Definition and Summary

               Lent is a period of fasting leading up to Easter. It recalls
               Jesus' 40-day fast in the wilderness. Catholic Lent begins on
               Ash Wednesday and ends right before the evening Masses of Holy
               Thursday, although Lenten penance continues through Holy
               Saturday. In 2016, Lent begins on February 10th in the Latin
               Church (dates in other years). Prayers: Lent Prayers

               Basic Facts About Lent

               [INS:Liturgical Color(s):INS]: Violet (Purple)
               [INS:Type of Holiday::INS] Fast
               [INS:Time of Year:INS]: Immediately following Ordinary Time
               after Epiphany; calendar date varies
               [INS:Duration:INS]: Liturgically Lent lasts 44 Days, begins on
               Ash Wednesday and ends before the Paschal Triduum (and includes
               Sundays). The traditional Lenten fast is observed for 40 days,
               starting on Ash Wednesday, going through Holy Week, excluding
               Sundays.
               [INS:Celebrates/Symbolizes:INS]: Jesus' wilderness fast;
               Preparation for Easter
               [INS:Alternate Names:INS]: Great Lent
               [INS:Scriptural References:INS]: Matthew 4:1-11; Luke 4:1-13

               Introduction

               Many Christians throughout the world observe Lent. Catholic,
               Orthodox, and Protestants benefit from this annual season of
               sacrifice and simplicity. For non-Christians, Lent might seem
               counterintuitive, since Christians voluntarily make sacrifices.
               Christians are simply imtitating the practices and teachings of
               Jesus.

               In reality, Lent ends up being different things, depending on
               the person. For some, it is a period of going on a diet; for
               others, it is when Catholic co-workers show up to work with
               ashes on their heads, and fast-food restaurants start selling
               fish sandwiches. So what exactly is Lent and where did it come
               from?

               In basic terms, Lent is the season before Easter, in the West
               lasting liturgically from Ash Wednesday until the Mass of Holy
               Thursday exclusive (see General Norms for the Liturgical Year
               and Calendar). The evening of Holy Thursday begins the The
               Easter Triduum, which lasts from Holy Thursday to the Evening
               Prayer of Easter Day. However, Lenten fasting and penance
               continue until the end of Holy Week, and all of Holy Week is
               included in the traditional 40 day Lenten fast, despite Lent
               ending liturgically on Holy Thursday.

               We should note that in many Protestant churches, the liturgical
               season of Lent continues through Holy Saturday, although in
               current Catholic discipline, Lent ends liturgically before Holy
               Thursday. While Sundays are typically excluded from fasting and
               abstinence restrictions, and are not numbered in the traditional
               "40 Days" of Lent, they are still part of the Lenten season, as
               can be seen from their Lenten themes. Thus, the way Lent is
               observed in the Catholic Church can seem a bit tricky, because
               the actual modern liturgical season (lasting 44 days, including
               Sundays) is numbered slightly differently than the traditional
               40 day Lenten fast, which excludes Sundays.

               The purpose of Lent is to be a season of fasting, self-denial,
               spiritual growth, conversion, and simplicity. Lent, which comes
               from the Teutonic (Germanic) word for springtime, can be viewed
               as a spiritual spring cleaning: a time for taking spiritual
               inventory and then cleaning out those things which hinder our
               corporate and personal relationships with Jesus Christ and our
               service to him. Thus it is fitting that the season of Lent begin
               with a symbol of repentance: placing ashes mixed with oil on
               one's head or forehead. However, we must remember that our
               Lenten disciplines are supposed to ultimately transform our
               entire person: body, soul, and spirit, and help us become more
               like Christ. Eastern Christians call this process theosis, which
               St. Athanasius describes as "becoming by grace what God is by
               nature."

               There are a few basic tasks that traditionally have been
               associated with Lent. Many of these have a long history. These
               are fasting, almsgiving, and prayer. In addition, reading the
               Scriptures and the Church's Writings can help one grow during
               the season. Let's look at each of these suggestions
               individually.

               [INS:Fasting::INS] The Western Rite of the Catholic Church
               expects its members age 18 to 59 to fast on Ash Wednesday and
               Good Friday, unless a physical condition prevents it. This means
               only one full meal is permitted in a fast day. The Fridays of
               Lent are days of required abstinence, meaning meat, and soups or
               gravies made of meat, are not permitted. Abstinence is required
               of those age 14 and older. For more details, please scroll down
               to our FAQ or click here for detailed Catholic Fasting
               Guidelines. Most Protestant churches that celebrate Lent do not
               have these official requirements. However, when we "give
               something up" for Lent, we are embracing a form of fasting, an
               excellent spiritual discipline. Eastern Christians have a more
               rigorous fast, abstaining from meat, wine, oil, dairy products,
               and even fish. Check out Great Lent Fasting Guidelines for more
               information on Eastern Lent information, including fasting
               guidelines. Some people choose to give up sins (gossip,
               drunkenness, etc) for Lent. In this way, Lent represents a
               spiritual training time to overcome evil. Pope St. Leo, for
               example, emphasized that fasting from wrath is required along
               with food. Some give up things they have a strong desire for,
               e.g. sweets, caffeine, etc. We have listed various things you
               can give up for Lent here. By giving these up, the person
               fasting learns to control a particular part of his or her life,
               which leads to greater self-discipline even when Lent is over.
               As such in Lent we are able to learn, examine, and get under
               control our material excesses. Whatever you decide to fast from,
               remember, as Steven Clark likes to say: "Lent is more than a
               diet." Lent is about spiritual results, not material ones. So,
               while losing a few pounds may be a nice side benefit, all
               fasting should be done for God's glory and spiritual growth.

               [INS:Prayer::INS] Lent is a perfect time to develop or
               strengthen a discipline of regular prayer. The Liturgy of the
               Hours, an ancient practice of praying throughout the day, is a
               good place to start. A good goal for Lent would be to read
               Morning Prayer and Evening Prayer everyday. If you already do
               that, perhaps you could add noon or night prayer (also called
               Compline). Contemplative prayer, based around the idea of
               silence or listening for God, is also well suited to Lent. There
               are also many excellent form prayers that reflect the
               penitential mood of Lent. The Litany of the Precious Blood, The
               Great Litany (Anglican Use Version), and The Decalogue are very
               appropriate for the season. We can also find many excellent
               prayers for Lent from the Scriptures. The Seven Penitential
               Psalms are excellent for prayer, as is the apocryphal Prayer of
               Manasseh. Praying The Rosary throughout Lent can be rewarding
               too. Many excellent poems (including "Hymn to God the Father" by
               John Donne) and Lenten Canticles emphasize Lenten themes.
               Theology and liturgy should always be prayer, so a good
               discipline for Lent would be to make an effort to attend worship
               services whenever possible. Daily mass would be very rewarding.

               [INS:Almsgiving (Charity)::INS] While Lent is about giving
               something up (i.e. fasting), it is also about putting something
               positive in its place. The best way to remove vice is to
               cultivate virtue. Lent has been a traditional time of helping
               the poor and doing acts of charity and mercy. While as
               Christians this is a year round calling, Lent is a good time to
               examine ways to get involved and to make resolutions to actually
               do them. Giving alms can be done in more ways than just giving
               out money to people on the street. It can be done by helping
               your family, friends, and neighbors out of tight situations or
               being more generous to hired help. However, one of the best ways
               to give alms is by volunteering for a charity. There are many
               lay religious orders, which devote much of their time to
               charity. Lent is a perfect time to discern a call to these or
               any other ministry. Some good charity organizations include
               Society of St. Vincent DePaul (Catholic), Catholic Relief
               Services, Habitat for Humanity (Ecumenical), The Hunger Site
               (Ecumenical), and Samaritan's Purse (Ecumenical).

               [INS:Scripture Reading::INS] When facing temptation in the
               desert, Jesus relied on Scripture to counter the wiles of the
               devil. It is a formidable weapon for us as well. Biblical
               illiteracy among Christians of all types is rampant and, quite
               honestly, shameful. Lent is an excellent time to remedy this
               problem. One way to read Scripture is to use the lectionary of
               the Liturgy of the Hours. This will get you through most of the
               Bible in two years. The Bible is even online! Reading the Church
               Fathers can also be helpful to spiritual growth.

               History

               Lent probably originated with the pre-Easter baptismal rituals
               of catechumens, although the number of days set aside for
               fasting varied according to region. Irenaeus (AD 180) testifies
               to the variety of durations of pre-Easter fasts in the second
               century. Tertullian (AD 200) suggests that Catholics fasted two
               days prior to Easter, but that the Montanists (a heretical sect
               that Tertullian later joined) fasted longer. However, the number
               forty, hallowed by the fasts of Moses, Elijah, and especially
               Jesus, probably influenced the later fixed time of 40 days.

               The Canons of Nicaea (AD 325) were the first to mention 40 days
               of fasting. Initially the forty day Lenten fast began on a
               Monday, and was intended only for those who were preparing to
               enter the Church at Easter. Lent still begins on a Monday in
               many Eastern Churches. Eventually the West began Lent on Ash
               Wednesday, and soon the whole Church, and not just catechumens,
               observed the Lenten fast. The East has no equivalent to Ash
               Wednesday.

               The earliest fasts of Lent tended to be very strict, allowing
               one meal a day, and even then meats, eggs, and other indulgences
               were forbidden. The Eastern Churches follow this today. Now, in
               the Western Church, only Ash Wednesday and Good Friday are
               enjoined as strict fast days, but Fridays are set aside for
               abstinence from meat.

               Sundays are not a part of the Lenten fast, because Sunday is
               always a feast of the resurrection. However, the Sundays of Lent
               are still a part of the Lenten liturgical season in the Western
               Church, and the worship services tend to be more simple and
               austere than normal. They lack the Gloria, and the joyous
               "alleluias" of the Easter season. The Western liturgical color
               of Lent is violet, symbolizing royalty and penitence.
               Solemnities like St. Joseph and the Annunciation, take
               precedence over Lenten observances in the Church calendar. These
               days, when they fall on Fridays, do away with Lenten abstinence
               requirements. However, at least in the current Western Church,
               Lent nearly always trumps the observances of minor feast days.
               Too many festivals take away from the simple and penitential
               spirit of the Lenten season. Certain devotions and liturgies
               have developed during the Lenten season, including (in the
               West), the Stations of the Cross.

               A Lent Video Card From Us

               Worship And Prayer Resources

               Lent Prayers of the Faithful I
               Prayers and Hymns in Preparation for Great Lent
               Church Fathers Lenten Reading Plan (complete version:
               lentfatherscomplete.pdf)
               Church Fathers Lenten Reading Plan LITE (Shorter Edition)
               Stations of the Cross
               Suggestions for your Lenten Fast
               Lent Sermon I Pope St. Leo
               Lent Sermon II Pope St. Leo
               Lent Sermon XI Pope St. Leo

               Lent Art, Photos, and Images

               thumbnail       thumbnail    thumbnail            thumbnail
               Jesus on the    Temptation   St. Thomas of        Praying
               Cross With Mary of Christ    Villaneuva           Shepherd
               (D. Bennett)    (Botticelli) Distributing Alms    (Pieter
                                            (Murillo)            Bruegel II)

Report                         thumbnail
Offensive Ad   thumbnail       King David
Privacy Policy The Fast Day    Doing
               Meal (Chardin)  Penance
twitter                        (Durer)

               Images Related to Holy Week
ChurchYear.Net More Liturgical Artwork
Blog
               Lent and Church Year Books

Church Year                  
.Net Basic
                             
Ancient &
Future
Catholics      Traditions and Symbols

Advent         Traditions
               Lenten Disciplines: Fasting, Almsgiving, Scripture Reading,
Immaculate     Prayer
Conception     Stations of the Cross
               Making Pancakes on Shrove Tuesday (the eve of Ash Wednesday)
Christmas
               Symbols
Holy Family    Crucifix and Cross
               Ashes
Mary Mother of Fish
God            Lamp and Oil
               Two Scourges
Epiphany       The Color Violet

Candlemas      Lent Games and Educational Materials

St. Valentine  Lent Crossword Puzzle (html)
               Lent Crossword Puzzle Answers (html)
Ash Wednesday  Lent Crossword Puzzle (pdf)
               Interactive Lent Crossword Puzzle
Lent
               Frequently Asked Questions
St. Patrick
               1.[INS: I am penitential everyday. Why do you only do it for 40
St. Joseph     days out of the year?:INS]
               We also believe it's important to be penitential everyday, if by
Annunciation   that you mean confessing our sins and making amends to God and
               those humans whom we have offended. However, if you mean that
Holy Week      Christianity is always about fasting and self-denial, then we
               would respectfully disagree. Christianity is also a religion of
Palm Sunday    feasting. The resurrection of our Lord and his triumph over
               death should fill us with great joy. However, Christianity also
Easter Triduum has a penitential and somber side. Our Lord was crucified before
               he was raised. So, we also don't believe in feasting all the
Holy Thursday  time either. There are proper times for each, which is the
               beauty of the Church year.
Good Friday
               2.[INS: Why Only Work on Spiritual Discipline 40 Days a Year?
Holy Saturday  :INS]
               Spiritual discipline and growth in Jesus are not limited to 40
Easter         days of the year and should occur everyday. Likewise, things
               done during Lent should always be done with the purpose of
Ascension      integrating them into our entire Christian life. Here the
               spring-cleaning analogy works well. Lent is a time of extra
Pentecost      intense spiritual house cleaning, where the focus on prayer,
               fasting and almsgiving becomes the most important and supersedes
Ordinary Time  all else. Although many claim to do this kind of self-evaluation
               frequently, I'd say it's a safe bet that traditions without Lent
Trinity Sunday rarely come close to devoting even forty days to it.

Corpus Christi 3. Can I Eat Meat Broths, Stocks, Sauces, Fats, Or Gelatin When
               Fasting or Abstaining?
Assumption of
Mary           4. What Is Mardi Gras?

All Saints Day 5. What Is Shrove Tuesday?

All Souls Day  6.[INS: Why Doesn't My Church Observe Lent?:INS]
               For some reason many churches, even though they celebrate
Christ the     Christmas and Easter, ignore Lent entirely. Why? Well, some
King           Christians believe that Lent places too much emphasis on sin,
               guilt, and wrongdoing, and they would prefer to do away with
Prayer         what they consider to be such outdated talk. Churches that have
               been influenced by the Radical Reformation, including Baptists,
Prayers of the Pentecostals, and so-called "Non-Denominational" churches, have
Faithful       never observed Lent, probably because it is a "tradition" of the
               Church, not explicitly commanded in the Bible. However, the idea
Basic Catholic of Lent, emulating our Lord's 40 days in the wilderness, is
Prayers        certainly a Bible-based tradition. Another possible reason
               (which is tied to the first two reasons) is that Lent is
Teacher        difficult, and requires that we examine material and spiritual
Prayers        excesses in our lives. It is contrary to our culture's idea that
               everything (including one's faith) must be happy, easy, and have
Thanksgivings  mass popular appeal. Of course, such ideas are secular modern
               and postmodern ideals, not based on the Bible, Jesus, or
               Christian history. The reality is that Jesus' life was full of
               poverty, simplicity, and sacrifice, ideals we strive for our
               entire lives, but focus on during Lent.

               7.[INS: What are The Western Catholic Lenten Fasting and
               Abstinence Guidelines?:INS]
               The minimum the Catholic Church expects is fasting on Ash
               Wednesday and Good Friday, and abstinence on the Fridays of
               Lent. Fasting means eating only one full meatless meal on that
               day. However, one may still eat a breakfast and even a lunch in
               addition to a full meal if the two additional small meals do not
               add up to a second full meal. Snacking is not allowed. Drinking
               coffee, tea, juices, etc, between meals is permitted on fast
               days. Abstinence requires abstaining from meat, and soups and
               gravies made from meat, for the entire day. Meat is defined as
               the "flesh meat of warm-blooded animals." This is the reason why
               Catholics often eat fish on Fridays, but anything meatless
               works. The requirements are slightly different for those of
               certain ages. Fasting is only required of those from ages 18-59,
               and abstinence is required of all people 14 and older, although
               parents are expected to teach their children the reasons behind
               their fasting, etc. Those with health conditions are excluded.
               Note that some Western bishop conferences may have more strict/
               less strict fast and abstinence requirements, so it is wise to
               check with your local parish for local fast and abstinence
               expectations. Also, Eastern Catholic Rites have different
               fasting guidelines. These are simply the minimum expectations.
               Additional forms of self-denial, within reason, can also be
               spiritually beneficial.

               8.[INS: What if a Solemnity (such as the Annunciation or St.
               Joseph) Falls on a Friday? Do We Have to Abstain from Meat?:INS]
               In the most recent version of Latin Canon Law, Canon 1251
               specifically states that if a solemnity falls on a Friday,
               Catholics are not bound to abstain from meat. However, Canon
               1253 states that Conferences of Bishops can determine exact
               Lenten observances for local Catholics, so it is always best to
               check with your local priest if you have questions related to
               abstinence and fasting.

               9.[INS: What Are The Names of the 3 Days Before Ash Wednesday?
               :INS]
               These three days, beginning with the Sunday before Ash Wednesday
               are collectively known as "Shrovetide." The Sunday Before Ash
               Wednesday has been called Hall Sunday, meaning hallowed or holy
               Sunday, and Carling Sunday from the European custom of eating
               parched peas fried in butter (carlings) on this day. The Monday
               before Ash Wednesday has been called Hall Monday, Callop Monday,
               named for a food eaten that day, and Blue Monday, named because
               on this Monday the penitence of Lent is approaching, thus
               causing some to have feelings of depression, symbolized by the
               color blue. However, others have called the day Merry Monday,
               because for some, it is a day to party before Lent. Tuesday has
               been called Hall Night, Shrove Tuesday (see #3 above), Pancake
               Day (see #3 above), and Mardi Gras (see #3 above).

               10. What Is Laetare Sunday?

               General Links

               Resources for Great Lent (Orthodox)
               More Resources for Great Lent (Orthodox)
               Lenten Links and Resources (Various/Ecumenical)
               Lent Reading List

               About and Contact

               To learn more about us, click here. If you have any suggestions
               or information you would like to add to our Church Year. Net
               pages, please contact us.

               This page written by Jonathan Bennett and David Bennett. Last
               updated 03-28-2015.





free hit counter
[noscript]
