                       Find Us on Twitter  Find Us on Facebook

 

  HOME  |  PARISH  |  NEWS  |  MINISTRIES  |  RELIGIOUS ED  |  BULLETINS  |  
OUR SCHOOLS  |  DIRECTIONS  |  CONTACT US 
PLEASE PRAY FOR:   Mike Stockan, Bob Miller, Tina Sanson, Eugene Bianco, Jr.,
Sally White, Simon Jacobson, Tyler Branca, Helen Gett, Ruth & Anthony Perry,
Lydia Ghirardi, Betsy Moore, Beverly Redmond, Bill Flecher, Paul DeJulia, Lisa
Rosa, Joyce Reardon, Brian Karing, Vivian LaCamera, Jane Leyde, Julia
Gagliardi, Ed L., Elizabeth Donnelly, Kelly Heinze, Leland DeAngelis, Piper
Anderson, Eugene & Mary Ellen Zreliak, Francis Niehaus, Audrey Lacey, Ann
Oliver, Marie Nicastro, Judy Paulitz, Theresa Hovanec, Joan Burke, Mike Moroco,
Barbara LeMon, Rose Faylo, Sue McLaughlin, Ron Iovino, Francis Petrini, Bill
Vasconi, Jr., Vonnie O’Hara, Ann & Keith Lepak, Richard Perrine, Barb Wareham,
Les Kovach, Gerrie Derr and Fred Haines.

                                
       [sidetop_home]                                             [front1]

                                 From the Pastor's Desk                                                               The Epiphany of the Lord 
         [craftshow]           ADULT EDUCATION CLASS
                               A sign-up sheet is on the main bulletin board if you are interested in
        [webminsched]          attending the Adult Education Class that Fr. Tom will be offering beginning
                               January 20. I have been trying to decide on what kind of Adult Education Class
        [sidewhitman]          would be helpful to people. I recently finished a book by Fr. James Martin,
       Fr. Tom Whitman         S.J., entitled, “Jesus: A Pilgrimage” that I think would make a nice
      St. Joseph Pastor        introduction to Scripture Study and an introduction to praying with Scripture.
                               The course would basically be a reading of a few chapters of the book each
        [sidebulletin]         week, discussion about the Scripture passage, and any additional information I
     This Week's Bulletin      might provide relevant to the Scripture passages. The course would begin on
                               Wednesday, January 20, 2016 at 7:00pm in the Choir Room. The class would run
                               about an hour and fifteen minutes. The classes would conclude in June of 2016.
       [sideparishoner]        We would not be meeting every Wednesday. A full schedule will be given at the
     Become a Parishioner      first class. The nice thing is that if you can’t make one of the classes, you
                               still have the book to read the material we covered and the next class won’t be
                               dependent on what happened the week before. You will need to purchase the book
                               prior to the class – it is available at Amazon.com in book form and in Kindle
                               form.

                               FUND RAISING COMMITTEE
                               We currently have 5 people on this committee and they are doing a great job.
                               But we are looking for a few more members to help us come up with ideas and
                               plan the events, some are fund raising events and some are more social events.
                               If you are interested in helping please, contact Fr. Tom.

                               REFLECTION ON THE READINGS
                               We continue the celebration this week with the feast of the Epiphany and the
                               traditional story of the three wise men. The word Epiphany is often used to
                               mean a revelation or an unveiling[pastorsdesk_epiphany] of something or a
                               showing of something that had been hidden or just not seen. Often times we use
                               the word epiphany to mean a sudden insight into something or an idea that
                               suddenly comes to us of how to solve a problem. On this feast day, the Epiphany
                               has to do with God revealing who God is to us in a variety of ways.

                               In the first reading we hear about Jerusalem, the great city where the temple
                               had been built, the center of the Jewish faith. This was where all the great
                               things would happen in the people’s relationship with God. Today we are invited
                               to think of Jerusalem as any place, event or person in which we encounter God
                               in a life altering way.

                               In the second reading Paul speaks about the epiphany he has in regards to who
                               can come to know God. Originally Paul thought that only Jewish people could
                               come to know the one true God, but now Paul realizes that even the Gentiles
                               (non-Jewish people) could come to know and worship God. This was a total
                               reversal for Paul who was a very staunch Pharisee who believed there was no
                               salvation outside the Jewish faith. It reminds us today of that important truth
                               of the Second Vatican Council that Catholics are not the only ones who can come
                               to find salvation. All people can come to know God in their religion as well.
                               There are many paths that lead us to God.

                               And in the gospel we hear the story of how astrologers, magi, dealers in the
                               occult, wise men, three kings, or whatever we name them – but people outside
                               the Jewish faith are led by a star to find the newborn king of the Jews. They
                               are the first Gentile (non Jewish) followers of Jesus. It is a reminder to us
                               that we never know what will be the moment, the event, or the person who will
                               lead another person to encounter God. But those who truly seek God in a real
                               and honest way will find God.

                                
Mass Schedule                      Sacraments                                              Programs

Weekday and Holy Day schedules can Baptism: The first Saturday of the month at the 5:15 pm Rite of Christian Initiation for Adults
be found in the bulletin.          Mass and the last Sunday of the month at the 11:00 am   (RCIA): Please call the rectory office.
                                   Mass. Pre-baptism class required. No baptisms during
Saturday: 5:15 pm (Vigil)          Advent and Lent.                                        Novena to Our Lady of Perpetual Help: Every
                                                                                           Wednesday after the 12:10 pm Mass in the
Sunday: 8:30 am and 11:00 am       Reconciliation: Saturday afternoons, 4:00-4:30 pm.      Mother's Chapel.
                                   Confessions at other times by appointment.
                                                                                           Prayer Line: For intentions, please call
                                   Matrimony: By appointment six months in advance.        724-962-5996,
                                                                                           724-347-2527, or 724-981-0377
                                   Sacrament of Holy Orders: Some men fulfill God's call
                                   to holiness by serving as priests or permanent deacons. Religious Education Program: CCD Grades K-11,
                                   Men, high school age or older, who feel God may be      at Case Avenue Elementary, Sundays 9:30 am
                                   calling them to pursue the Sacrament of Holy Orders     -10:45 am (during the school year).
                                   should contact our parish priest.

© Copyright 2014-15 St. Joseph Parish. Designed by Landmark  HOME | PARISH | NEWS | MINISTIRIES | RELIGIOUS ED | BULLETINS | DIRECTIONS |
Information Services                                                                                                              CONTACT
