 Research
  Papers
   from                                        Research Papers
  Pickle
Publishing
               [ Home ] [ Books ] [ Charcoal ] [ Music ] [ Software ] [ Videos ] [ Papers ] [ 
                                                  Courses ]
 [      ]  Here's a listing of what we have thus far. For your convenience, file sizes for
  Search   files over 40K are given. If there's a topic you want us to cover, or if you
           have any suggestions whatsoever, please email us.
Home Page
Online     You may freely copy and distribute this information for non-commercial
Store      purposes, as long as credit is given to the author and reference is made to
Books      this web site. If referred to on the web, please provide a link to this site.
Charcoal
Music      If you find this info helpful, donations are appreciated.
Software
Videos      1. Bible Doctrines — Updated 8/25/2006
            2. Bible Prophecy
Research    3. Chronology
Papers      4. Current Events
Free        5. Health
Courses     6. History
            7. Science
            8. Apologetics


           Bible Doctrines

           "An 'Angel' Named Yahweh." Repeatedly in the Old Testament we have an angel
           appearing who claims to be Yahweh, God Himself. Would not this "Angel" be
           Christ?

           "The Divine Christ in the Old Testament." Gives briefly the evidence for
           Christ's intimate involvement in the affairs of His people even in Old
           Testament times.

           "Immortality: Conditional or Innate." Gives 265 verses from 158 chapters from
           35 books of the Bible. These verses indicate that immortality is indeed
           conditional. (86K)

           "What Is the Soul and Spirit?" Gives 157 verses from the Bible which use the
           Hebrew and Greek words for "soul" and "spirit" in ways that do not harmonize
           with the common concept of death. (57K)

           "To Depart and to Be with Christ." An excellent, thorough, 19th-century
           analysis of Php. 1:23, showing that Paul expected to meet Christ at the
           resurrection, not at death. Also part of this tract is "The Return of the
           Spirit to God," an analysis of Eccl. 12:7; and "Shall Our Earth Burn Eternally?
           "

           "Investigative Judgment." This was written in 1995 in answer to the question,
           "Where do you get that from the Bible?" Gives texts of Scripture to support 32
           different points.

           " 'Then shall the sanctuary be cleansed.' What does this verse really mean?"
           Can unconfessed sins defile the sanctuary? What exactly does it mean for the
           sanctuary to be defiled?

           "The Righteousness of Christ in the Law." Written in 1902 by E. G. White, this
           is an excellent commentary on 2 Corinthians 3, an often misunderstood chapter
           in the writings of the apostle Paul.

           "The Holy Name: Yahweh and Yehoshua." Examines from a biblical standpoint
           whether Yahweh and Yehoshua are the only acceptable names to use for God and
           Christ.

           "Analysis of Common Quotations from the Church 'Fathers' Concerning the Lord's
           Day" Examines quotations found on a number of web sites, quotations all copied
           from the same tampered, fraudulent source. The immediate context of some of
           these quotations is absolutely shocking.

           New! "The Word "Church" in the Old Testament" Demonstrates that the Greek word
           for "church" is repeatedly used in the Old Testament Septuagint to refer to
           Israel, while sometimes "synagogue" is used in reference to Gentiles. A must
           read for every dispensationalist.


           Bible Prophecy

           "An Examination of Anderson's Chronological Errors Regarding Daniel 9's First
           69 Weeks." Dispensational eschatology, as portrayed on Left Behind, depends on
           an adequate explanation of the first 69 weeks. Anderson is often quoted, and
           yet his theories are contradicted by plain facts about calendars and history.

           "Dr. Harold Hoehner's Refinements of Anderson's Theory: Are They Sound?"
           Acknowledges the four improvements over Anderson that Dr. Hoehner has provided.
           Examines the chronological difficulties still present in his calculations of
           Daniel 9's 70 weeks, and suggests an alternative interpretation unencumbered by
           such difficulties.

           "Does Dispensationalism Allow to Be Fulfilled the Very Prophecies About Israel
           It says Must Be Fulfilled?" Dispensationalism says certain Old Testament
           prophecies about Israel must be fulfilled in the last days. Yet the typical
           dispensational timeline does not leave any room for some of those prophecies to
           take place.

           "Karaite Reckoning vs. Rabbanite Reckoning: Was October 22 the Right Date, or
           Was It September 23?" Examines extant evidence not commonly known that shows
           that October 22 was indeed the correct date for Yom Kippur in the year 1844.
           Includes a former Rabbi's eyewitness account of what was happening in Palestine
           in the 1830's.

           "The Seven Trumpets of Revelation: Were the Later Reformers Right?" Is the
           evangelical position of yesteryear correct about the seven trumpets being in
           part a symbol of military conquest of Rome and Byzantium? Contains a link to a
           chart of 53 evangelical expositors who wrote between 1522 and 1798, some of
           whom were quite distinguished.

           "Who Are These Seven Kings?" An analysis of Revelation 17's seven kings.
           Addresses various interpretations, past and present, and endeavors to narrow
           the possibilities down to one.

           "Remarkable Fulfillment of Prophecy, Relating to France and the "Two Witnesses;
           " Quotations from Eminent Expositors of Prophecy, with Remarks by Mr. Miller." 
           A letter by William Miller, with extensive quotations from evangelical
           scholars, presents what used to be the typical interpretation of Revelation 11.

           "The Meaning of 666" Attempts to narrow the search for the mystical name that
           adds up to 666 by using Revelation's allusions to a passage in Exodus.


           Chronology

           "Popular Dates Used in Archeology: An Analysis of Assumptions Based on the
           Septuagint." Demonstrates that the Septuagint does not allow for post-Flood
           civilizations to be in place 1000 years earlier than the Masoretic text. In
           actuality, it allows only for an extra 350 or 450 years. This makes many
           popular, ancient dates erroneous.

           "An Examination of Anderson's Chronological Errors Regarding Daniel 9's First
           69 Weeks." Dispensational eschatology, as portrayed on Left Behind, depends on
           an adequate explanation of the first 69 weeks. Anderson is often quoted, and
           yet his theories are contradicted by plain facts about calendars and history.

           "Dr. Harold Hoehner's Refinements of Anderson's Theory: Are They Sound?"
           Acknowledges the four improvements over Anderson that Dr. Hoehner has provided.
           Examines the chronological difficulties still present in his calculations of
           Daniel 9's 70 weeks, and suggests an alternative interpretation unencumbered by
           such difficulties.

           "When Were the Sabbatical Years?" Re-examines Ben Zion Wacholder's evidence for
           his sabbatical dates, and concludes that the standard position was correct
           after all. Using Josephus, 1 Maccabees, 2 Maccabees, ancient inscriptions and
           documents, the Talmud, and Maimonides, when the sabbatical years were can be
           determined. And this all has a bearing on Daniel 9's 70 weeks.


           Current Events

           "Making Moslems Mad: Is Left Behind to Blame?" Radical departures in Protestant
           theology have resulted in books and movies about the supposed future
           demolishing of one of Islam's holiest shrines in order to rebuild the Jewish
           temple. Has this contributed to the hatred of some Moslems for America, and
           thus our current crisis?

           The Triple Crown: An Account of the Papal Conclaves from the Fifteenth Century
           to the Present Day. This is a book by Vale'rie Pirie about the
           behind-the-scenes proceedings of the papal elections. Also included are short
           summaries of each pope's reign.


           Health

           "Charcoal, Herbs, and Simple Remedies." Experiences of a 19th-century health
           reformer using charcoal, herbs, and simple remedies in the treatment of
           disease. The use of these things avoided the side effects of the drug
           preparations of that era.

           "Hot or Cold? 'Practical Counsel on Home Treatments'." The benefits of heat
           over extreme cold in hydrotherapy treatments are enumerated by a
           nineteenth-century health reformer. A case is referred to involving an American
           form of malaria.

           "The Use of Chicken Manure/Litter in Animal Feed" Information provided by Daryl
           Fleming of the FDA Center for Veterinary Medicine. Shocking as it may sound,
           the FDA informs us that farmers have been feeding chicken litter to cows for 40
           years, and that "it is safe, nutritionally valid, and environmentally sound."
           We beg to differ.


           History

           The Triple Crown: An Account of the Papal Conclaves from the Fifteenth Century
           to the Present Day. This is a book by Vale'rie Pirie about the
           behind-the-scenes proceedings of the papal elections. Also included are short
           summaries of each pope's reign.


           Science

           "Ezekiel's City: Calculating the Circumference of the Earth." Evidence for the
           divine inspiration of the Scriptures. By comparing Ezekiel's city with
           Revelation's New Jerusalem, provides a way to calculate the precise
           circumference of the earth from the Scriptures.


           Apologetics

           A Response to the Video: Seventh-day Adventism: The Spirit behind the Church 
           The revised and updated print edition of our critique of Jeremiah Films' video,
           broken up into quickly downloaded pages. Both the still-available old version,
           "A Critique of the Jeremiah Films Video: Seventh-day Adventism — The Spirit
           Behind the Church," and the print edition cover 239 different points where the
           video falls short.

               [ Home ] [ Books ] [ Charcoal ] [ Music ] [ Software ] [ Videos ] [ Papers ] [ 
                                                  Courses ]

                      Send questions or comments about this web site to Info & Feedback.

                                              Pickle Publishing
                                             1354 County Road 21
                                           Halstad, Minnesota 56548
                                                (218) 456-2568
                                          www.pickle-publishing.com

                                              Copyright (C) 2006

                                                  [counter]
