                              [D3C74430DE] Image

   Serving an international readership with the Old Jerusalem Gospel via the
                                   Internet.

Image HomeImage Current IssueImage ArchivesImage BookstoreImage PrintshopImage
  Image Plan of SalvationImage Correspondence CourseImage Daily Bible Reading
                                     Image
      Image Contact UsImage churches of ChristImage LaudsImage LinksImage

        ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
 Vol. 2, No. 11                                        Page 10                
                                                November, 2000
        ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
Biblical This & Thatan open Bible

                                Mary Magdalene

                                By D. Gene West

One of the genuine pleasures that come from studying the Bible is to look upon
the various characters around whom various stories revolve. One could spend a
lifetime doing nothing but studying the characters of the Bible and one would
be strengthened spiritually for having done so. There are two kinds of people
who are generally mentioned in the Bible. One is those who are very righteous
and fully desirous of following God and living a life of faith. The other is
those whose lives are very wicked and from whom we learn how not to live as we
attempt to serve Christ upon this earth.

One of the characters who has always caught my attention and about whom I have
had the joy of studying, intermittently through the years, is a lady by the
name of Mary Magdalene. Several things can be learned about her from the New
Testament and we will take the opportunity of noticing only a very few today.

The first thing we wish to notice about this devoted follower of Jesus Christ
is that Jesus had at some time in her life cast seven demons out of her (Mark
16:9). What these demons were and how they affected her we are not told, but
the evidence supports the view that her heart was filled with gratitude for
what Jesus had done for her, and she, along with some other women, became
disciples of our Lord. Mary is often accused of being a prostitute, but to the
best of my knowledge, such a charge is never made against her by the Sacred
Volume. Men assume that she was a lady of ill repute because the Bible says
that she had seven demons. How that connection is made, we are not sure, so I
repudiate the idea that she was that kind of woman.

She certainly was a faithful follower of our Lord, and along with the other
women who followed him, she attended to the needs of our Lord and his disciples
from the time that she first began to follow Jesus in Luke 8:2 until the time
of the resurrection and ascension of our Lord. As a matter of fact, she, and
some of the other women, stayed with the Lord during his arrest and crucifixion
when some of the men who had followed Jesus ran away to hide from the Lord's
enemies.

When Jesus was taken down from the cross, wrapped in a clean linen cloth and
laid in the new tomb of Joseph of Arimathea, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary
who was the mother of James and Joses were the ones who sat opposite the tomb
watching the burial. Furthermore, when the Sabbath was over, it was Mary
Magdalene who, along with the other Mary, came to the tomb of Jesus to find it
empty very early in the morning upon the first day of the week.

After the resurrection of Jesus, it was Mary Magdalene, along with the other
Mary who was told to take the message of the Lord's resurrection back to his
disciples. After his resurrection from the grave, Jesus appeared to Mary who
was weeping so profoundly because his body was absent from the grave, and she
had come to believe that someone had stolen it and had hidden it somewhere else
in the cemetery. Jesus, you will recall, approached this woman from behind, and
when she turned to see him he asked her why she was weeping, and she, thinking
that he was the caretaker of the cemetery, turned to him and said, "Sir, if You
have carried Him away, tell me where You have laid Him, and I will take him
away" (John 20:15). Jesus then spoke her name in such a manner as she was able
to recognize his voice, and she obviously threw her arms around him thinking
that he was alive in the same sense that he had been before and was going to
stay on the earth with his disciples. But Jesus said, "Do not cling to Me, for
I have not yet ascended to My Father, but go to My brethren and say to them, 'I
am ascending to My Father and your Father, and to My God and your God.'" Mary
was obedient to her Lord and she went immediately to his male disciples and
told them that she had seen the Lord and that he had spoken to her!

Think of the joy that must have been in the heart of this good woman for whom
Jesus had done such great things. Mary went from deep grief to rejoicing in a
matter of seconds when she learned that Jesus was not really dead and gone. The
apostle John is the only one of the biographers of Jesus who mentioned this
matter, and were it not for him, we might never have known the depth of
devotion that this woman had for Jesus our Savior. No recounting of the story
of the resurrection of our Lord would be complete without recounting the part
that was played by Mary Magdalene in bringing the news of the resurrection of
the Lord to his male disciples. After this the Lord would begin making his
appearances to various people at various times and this would go on for a
period of some forty days.

Mary went from a woman possessed with demons to being cured by the Lord, and
then followed him all the way to the tomb, and sat weeping in the cemetery
because she thought his body had been removed and placed elsewhere. How
fortunate we are that God saw fit to reveal to us what he did about Mary the
wonderful woman of Magdala!

                                     [12]

             Copyright   2000 Louis Rushmore. All Rights Reserved.

                         Image Conditions of UseImage

                             4325 Southeast Drive
                         Steubenville, Ohio 43953-3353

                                 740.266.9322

                          rushmore@gospelgazette.com

