Encounter Devotionals by Zach Wood

Welcome to my Encounter Devotionals Blog Site. I appreciate you visiting the
site out. Check out the devotionals I've written below as well as the archived
ones in the column on the right. I pray they help and inspire you to have a
deeper and more personal relationship and encounter with Jesus Christ.

Comments & E-mail List

If you would like to receive these devotionals through e-mail, please send your
request to: zwdevos_sub@hickorytech.net.







I always welcome comments, questions or thoughts regarding the devotionals:
zwdevos_feedback@hickorytech.net















●

Monday, January 4, 2016

Always There For Us

“Always There For Us”
By Zach Wood
Hebrews 4:14-16 NIV
“Therefore, since we have a great high priest who has ascended into heaven,
Jesus the Son of God, let us hold firmly to the faith we profess.  For we do
not have a high priest who is unable to empathize with our weaknesses, but we
have one who has been tempted in every way, just as we are—yet he did not sin. 
Let us then approach God’s throne of grace with confidence, so that we may
receive mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need.”

I am thankful that I have had so many people in my life, from the time I was a
child until now, that I could look up to and rely on for support and love. 
Whether it is a family member, a good friend, a mentor, or a teacher, I have
always had people who would look out for me and help me along the way.  I am
thankful for the caring people that God has put in my life to give advice and
gently nudge me to help me make good decisions.

It is always a great feeling when we know people are there for us, loving and
caring, helping us along the way when life is tough.  It feels great to know
people love and want to help support us.  However, these people are human and
they will let us down from time to time.  It isn’t that they don’t really care,
but they are human and sometimes they just don’t say the right things or do the
right things.  We end up getting hurt sometimes by people we really love and
care about. 

While it is absolutely wonderful to have others whom we can turn to and rely on
for support and strength, we must never forget Whom we can completely rely on
every moment of every day and Whom will never let us down or break a promise. 
He is always available when others are not.  He is always right there to hear
us when we need to vent our frustrations.  He is always waiting to hold us when
we are hurting.

As we enter this New Year, let us be reminded that our Savior, Jesus Christ, is
always available for us and is there to guide and strengthen us when we need it
most.  We can confidently approach God and know that He will never be too busy
to hear us or sympathize with us.  In our greatest times of need, He is always
ready and willing to walk with us and comfort us.  No matter what, He is always
there. 


He is able, more than able, to sympathize with anything we are going through.  
Posted by zwdevotions at 7:59 PM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Saturday, December 19, 2015

Create & Restore

“Create & Restore”
By Zach Wood
Psalm 51:10-12 (NIV)
“Create in me a pure heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit within me.  Do
not cast me from your presence or take your Holy Spirit from me.  Restore to me
the joy of your salvation and grant me a willing spirit, to sustain me.”

As we come close to the end of another year, many thoughts are going through
people’s minds.  These thoughts can be anything from complete joy to complete
sorrow.  The end of the year brings many thoughts about what our lives have
been and what can be as we look to begin a new year.

Sometimes we really mess up during the year, but there are also times when we
haven’t messed up, but bad things have ended up happening to us for one reason
or another.  This can really make us angry and distraught in so many ways. 
Maybe this year has been a really tough year for you with family or friends
having a very difficult time.  Maybe it’s been a tough year with your job. 
Maybe it’s been a tough year with some family situations you’d dealt with in
your home.

There are endless scenarios we could bring up that can make a challenging
year.  At the end of the year, we tend to be in two different worlds, so to
speak.  We often dwell on the past year and the many things that we have done
or said or that have happened to us.  Then we also think of the New Year and
all that we want to accomplish or try new.

Whatever your thoughts are at this time, there are seasons of sorrow and
seasons of joy.  Every human being experiences this.  David is no exception. 
This is one of my favorite passages in Psalm.  David became a man after God’s
heart.  He messed up big time and caused much grief, not only to himself, but
also to others.  He had a lot of pain as he thought about the past and then
looked to the future.

We all need to ask God to create in us a pure heart for various reasons.  We
have thought and said bad things that we need to repent of.  We also need God
to restore to us the joy of His salvation and the life He has given us.  He
wants to create and restore in us a joy that only He can bring. 


Whatever you might be thinking about as you end this year and begin a new one,
why not ask God this very day, and every day to create within you a sincere
desire to have a pure heart and a restored life through Him?  He is so willing
if you are willing to open up and let Him.  
Posted by zwdevotions at 11:55 AM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Monday, December 7, 2015

He Understands

“He Understands”
By Zach Wood
John 1:14 (NLT)
“So the Word became human and made his home among us. He was full of unfailing
love and faithfulness.  And we have seen his glory, the glory of the Father’s
one and only Son.”

Christmas time is one of my favorite times of the year.  Things are so festive
and alive with different colors no matter where you go.  The feeling of
Christmas and festivities is all around and people seem to have a different
kind of spirit.  This is also one of my favorite times of the year because we
talk about and focus on the birth of Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior.  He was
born into this world and had a mission unlike any other mission anyone has ever
had before.

The stories we hear each year about the birth of Jesus are wonderful to
remember and cherish.  But I want to take this a bit further than just
celebrating His birth. Not only was the Kind of Kings and Lord of Lords born
into this imperfect world, He also lived a sinless life and went on a mission
to make sure that we knew He loved us.

I am not only thankful for the time we spend focusing on celebrating His birth,
but I’m also so thankful to know that we have a Savior Who came to this earth
and lived among us. He lived among us filthy people and connected with those
who truly needed Him. He came for the sick and for those who were completely
lost.  He reached out to people who were outcasts.  He loved the unlovable.  He
opened His life to connecting to those whom most of us probably would never
consider coming close to.

The one thing I am so thankful for is that not only did He come to rescue us
from our sin, but also He knows and understands everything we go through.  He
knows the hurts we have.  He knows the pain we endure in every situation and
circumstance that is hard.  He knows how we are feeling even when we can’t seem
to really explain to anyone else.  He knows what we are truly feeling even when
we can’t express it to Him.  He understands and knows all that we feel and all
that we go through.

This time of year is hard for many people. A lot of people dread this time of
year because of bad memories for one reason or another.  If you are one of
those people who hurt this time of year and you don’t know who to reach out to,
remember that Jesus, and only Jesus, truly knows your heart and your hurt more
than anyone. He totally understands when no one else does.  He came to live
among us and reach out to those who were hurting.


Reach out to Him.  He understands and loves you and wants to hold you.
Posted by zwdevotions at 7:29 PM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Thursday, November 26, 2015

Thankful, Grateful, Blessed

“Thankful, Grateful, Blessed”
By Zach Wood
1 Thessalonians 5:16-18 (NIV)
 “Rejoice always, pray continually, give thanks in all circumstances; for this
is God’s will for you in Christ Jesus.”

A couple of weeks ago, as we were on the road driving to church, I noticed a
sign on the side of the road that drew my attention which read, “Thankful,
Grateful, Blessed”.  As the drive continued, I thought about those words and
how they should apply to every day living.

First, we are blessed.  This is something that has been done for us.  We are
blessed in so many ways.  When we receiving a blessing, whatever the gift may
be, that’s what it is, a gift.  We receive blessings in so many different ways
and forms.  Blessings can come in very little ways or very big ways.  However,
whether big or small, they are from God.  God loves to bless us and provide for
us.  The face that we are blessed has nothing to do with what we’ve done, but
with what’s been done for us and to us. 

Second and third, what is our reaction to the different ways we have been
blessed? Are we indeed thankful and grateful for all that we have received?  We
have already been blessed, but being thankful and grateful are sole choices we
make in response to what we’ve been given.  We have the individual choice of
whether or not to show thankfulness and gratefulness whatever the circumstances
we face in life.

I think we would all agree that it’s so easy to be thankful and grateful when
we receive nice gifts and when life is treating us well.  However, when life
hands us a basket or truckload of lemons, how often are we grateful and
thankful despite those hard times?  Do we push through, as Paul points us, and
continue to be thankful and grateful?  I think if we’re honest with ourselves,
we have to admit that we aren’t always grateful and thankful as we should
be.  We all have a lot of room to grow here.

We all “know” that we should be thankful and grateful for all that we’ve been
given, no matter what circumstances and situations that surround us each day,
but actually living that out can be really tough.  Paul learned to be thankful
and grateful because he knew he was very blessed over and above anything he
deserved.  He rejoiced in the blessings in his life, even when things were
tough.

I encourage all of us, not only at this time of Thanksgiving Holiday, but each
and every day, to remember that we are truly blessed by God in so many
ways.  Are we going to be sincere in our thankfulness and gratefulness, no
matter what?
Posted by zwdevotions at 12:30 PM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Monday, November 16, 2015

BIG or little God?

“BIG or little God?”
By Zach Wood
Ephesians 3:20-21 (NIV)
“Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine,
according to his power that is at work within us, to him be glory in the church
and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, for ever and ever! Amen.”

If someone were to ask you, “Do you serve a big God?”, your answer would most
likely be “Yes!”.  How many of us would even think of or even consider saying
that we don’t?  You ask any Christian leader or minister in a church and they
would quickly tell you that they do serve a very big God!  To answer any other
way would be absurd. 

We talk so often in the church about how we serve a big God and how powerful He
is.  We talk often about the amazing things He has done in our lives and how He
continues to work is mysterious ways.  We have Bible study groups and sermons
given on how incredible big our God is.  It is absolutely wonderful to share
how big God is, but don’t you think we should also be living our lives in a way
that shows we believe?

For so long, we have talked this up so much in the church about an amazing and
big God that works in unbelievable ways, but so often the way we live our lives
doesn’t tell that story to others.  We feel good talking about how wonderful He
is and make Him sound really great, but then as we live our lives many days, we
really don’t show others we truly have that faith in a big God. 

Paul definitely believed in a big God!  He served a God that was infinitely
more powerful than anything he could ever imagine.  Paul not only shared about
his big God, but he also lived believing this and living it!  How many of us
actually live this belief out each and every day?  How many of us not only talk
about how immeasurably great God is, but also live that faith out? 

If we’re honest with ourselves and with others, I think we’d have to say that
we do a lot more “talk” than actually living that belief out. We cannot only
talk about it, but we must live in a way that convinces others that we serve a
big God as well. 


So, do you serve a BIG God or a little God?  Do you make Him little in your
everyday life or BIG in the way you live so that others can see His amazing
ways?  
Posted by zwdevotions at 7:33 PM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Wednesday, November 4, 2015

People-Pleaser or God-Pleaser?

“People-Pleaser or God-Pleaser?”
By Zach Wood
Galatians 1:10 (NIV)
“Am I now trying to win the approval of human beings, or of God?  Or am I
trying to please people?  If I were still trying to please people, I would not
be a servant of Christ.”

There is not a single person in this world that does not, in one way or
another, desire to be liked by another human being.  Every one of us, no matter
our personality or how we were raised, desires to be accepted and liked by
other people.  Who wouldn’t??  Who would want to live a life being rejected by
people all the time?  Nobody desires that kind of life. 

While we do have a desire to be liked and accepted by others, and there’s
nothing wrong with that, we can also take that to an extreme and become
obsessed with getting others to like us.  It doesn’t take long for so many of
us to behave in certain ways in order to draw attention to ourselves. 
Sometimes it’s just emotions getting the best of us. Sometimes we just get
lonely and t desperate for someone to notice us.

Look at the title of this devotional and ask yourself whether you are a
people-pleaser or a God-pleaser.  Don’t answer that too quickly.  It’s so easy
to look and respond quickly that we desire to please God and not people.  But
if we took an honest look at our life each day, I think we would notice right
away that we strive to please people way too much.  There’s nothing wrong with
wanting to impress others and present ourselves well, but we can go to the
extreme of that just to get people to recognize us and like us.

I’ve often shared that Paul is one of my favorite characters in Scripture.  He
experienced more than any of us probably will ever experience.  He went through
so much and put up with much pain and strife.  He struggled more than many
others did and he learned much as he dealt with his tough experiences.

Of course he tried to please people, but he came to learn and realize that it
was so much more important to be concerned with what God thought than what
people thought of him.  He got to the point where he didn’t care what people
thought of him.  He became more concerned about making sure he was pleasing
God.  He knew Who he was serving and that meant more to him than trying to
people other people. 


The question is very simple this week.  Who are you trying to please?  Is it
God or the people around you?    
Posted by zwdevotions at 7:28 PM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Thursday, October 29, 2015

Attitude In The Morning

“Attitude In The Morning”
By Zach Wood
Psalm 59:16-17 (NIV)
“But I will sing of your strength, in the morning I will sing of your love; for
you are my fortress, my refuge in times of trouble.  You are my strength, I
sing praise to you; you, God, are my fortress, my God on whom I can rely.”

My day just never seems to feel right unless I have my quiet time in the
morning.  For many years, I have had this routine as I start my day.  It’s the
one time I have to myself each day that is completely quiet and peaceful.  I
wake up early before getting my girls up for school and before I head to work. 
I want to have this time in the morning, otherwise the rest of the day just
seems “off”.  I don’t feel like myself.  My attitude is always somewhat
different if I haven’t had time with God.

My attitude in the morning and throughout the day can be determined by whether
I’ve had that quiet time with Him.  It doesn’t mean I always have a great day
just because I have that quiet time, but it really helps knowing the Holy
Spirit is there to guide me and lead my thoughts and my heart to do what is
right and what is best.  Does that always happen?  No, of course not.  I don’t
always make the best decisions or do the right things.  But God seems to be
directing me a little more through the day when my thoughts begin with Him each
day.

How is your attitude in the morning?  How is my attitude in the morning?  Do
you start your day spending time praising Him?  Do you go to Him for the
strength you need for the day?  Is He your fortress and do you completely rely
on Him?

God desires for us to spend time with Him each day. He longs to hear us and for
us to bathe in His presence as we contemplate the day before us.  Can we choose
another time of the day to spend with Him and not the morning?  Well, of course
you can.  However, I really don’t know how you can’t start your day out with
prayer and expect the day to go well without first having spent time with Him. 
It just has always seemed like the best time that I can get my thoughts right
with Him and ask His guidance for the day.

I highly encourage you to consider, if you don’t already, spending some quality
time with Him for a few moments to start your day.  Help your attitude in the
morning.  It doesn’t have to be long.  Start small and work your way to more
time each day.  This Psalm is intentional about how we need to spend our time
each day giving praise to God and relying on Him to be our fortress in times of
trouble and hardship. 


How do you start your morning?
Posted by zwdevotions at 6:20 PM No comments: ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)

Total Pageviews

●

Family Blog

  • http://www.zachandjillwood.blogspot.com

●

Followers

●

Blog Archive

  • ▼  2016 (1)
      □ ▼  January (1)
          ☆ Always There For Us

  • ►  2015 (45)
      □ ►  December (2)
      □ ►  November (3)
      □ ►  October (4)
      □ ►  September (3)
      □ ►  August (4)
      □ ►  July (4)
      □ ►  June (4)
      □ ►  May (4)
      □ ►  April (5)
      □ ►  March (4)
      □ ►  February (4)
      □ ►  January (4)

  • ►  2014 (48)
      □ ►  December (5)
      □ ►  November (4)
      □ ►  October (5)
      □ ►  September (4)
      □ ►  August (4)
      □ ►  July (5)
      □ ►  June (4)
      □ ►  May (4)
      □ ►  April (5)
      □ ►  March (2)
      □ ►  February (2)
      □ ►  January (4)

  • ►  2013 (30)
      □ ►  December (2)
      □ ►  November (2)
      □ ►  October (2)
      □ ►  September (2)
      □ ►  August (1)
      □ ►  July (3)
      □ ►  June (2)
      □ ►  May (3)
      □ ►  April (3)
      □ ►  March (4)
      □ ►  February (2)
      □ ►  January (4)

  • ►  2012 (25)
      □ ►  December (2)
      □ ►  November (4)
      □ ►  October (4)
      □ ►  September (4)
      □ ►  August (4)
      □ ►  July (2)
      □ ►  April (1)
      □ ►  March (1)
      □ ►  February (1)
      □ ►  January (2)

  • ►  2011 (22)
      □ ►  December (2)
      □ ►  November (1)
      □ ►  October (3)
      □ ►  September (1)
      □ ►  August (3)
      □ ►  July (2)
      □ ►  June (1)
      □ ►  May (1)
      □ ►  April (2)
      □ ►  March (2)
      □ ►  February (2)
      □ ►  January (2)

  • ►  2010 (4)
      □ ►  December (3)
      □ ►  November (1)

●

About Me

My Photo

zwdevotions

View my complete profile
●
 
(C) 2015 www.zwdevotions.com All Rights Reserved.. Picture Window template.
Powered by Blogger.
●
