Rose Hill Methodist Church - Welcome
                                                               Methodist Logo
Join us for our Christmas Activity Morning 10:00am, Saturday
19^th December!

  •                  Welcome To Rose Hill Methodists On Line
      □ Welcome
      □ Our History  Our MissionOur Mission:
      □ How To Find
        Us           We exist to create opportunities for all to share God&
      □ Our Services apos;s love
        3
          ☆ December Our Aims:
            2015
          ☆ January    • We aim to be a welcoming church at the heart of our
            2016         community.
          ☆ February   • To allow space for the gifts of all people to develop,
            2016         in order to respond to God&apos;s love.
      □ Church Diary   • To reach out to all people at their point of need.
      □ Notices /
        Events       End quote
      □ Facilities
      □ Contact Us   Welcome to the Rose Hill Methodist Church website. Whether
      □ Gallery 2    you live in Oxford or are visiting the area, we would love
          ☆ Current  to meet you, check out our services. To find your way
          ☆ Archive  around use the menu on the left. Check out our events
      □ Links        guide for details of forthcoming events and services.

Neither height nor   Our congregation includes people who come from many
depth, nor anything  different backgrounds. Across the full range of our
else in all          activities, our central purpose is to help everyone to
creation, will be    learn to know God better through Jesus Christ. To help
able to separate us  eachother in our daily lives, to support eachother through
from the love of God the good experiences and the bad. To provide a space for
that is in Christ    all to share God's Love.
Jesus our Lord.
Romans 8:39          We&apos;re affectionately known as the "Church on The
                     Hill" and there has been a Methodist Church on Rose Hill
                     since 1835. Society has changed since then but the message
                     of God&apos;s love for the world is as relevant as ever
                     and that&apos;s why the congregation gathers for worship
                     each week and seeks to serve the local community.

                     Rose Hill Methodist Church Rose Hill Methodist Church
                     Rose Hill Methodist Church is situated on the main road
                     towards Rose Hill. It is easily accessible from the city
                     centre via public transport or there is a lovely cycle
                     along the River Thames through Iffley Village and on to
                     Rose Hill.

                     Our Services

                       • Sundays 10:30 a.m. Morning Worship (every Sunday)
                       • Sundays 18:00 p.m. House Fellowship (monthly - as
                         advertised)
                       • Midweek Prayer Breakfast 07:30 a.m. (monthly as
                         advertised)


                     If you have a prayer request and are not able to get along
                     to the prayer breakfast then just let us know and we&apos;
                     ll include your request in our meeting. If you would like
                     more information about the Church or the services and
                     events we hold, then please get in touch with us.

                     Please come and join us we guarantee you a very warm
                     welcome!

