
21tnt

  • Home
  • About
  • Baptist Resources
  • Essays/Issues
  • Controversies
  • [                    ]
    []

21tnt

  • Home
  • About
  • Baptist Resources
  • Essays/Issues
  • Controversies
  • [                    ]
    []

  • 2-background
    [2-content-]
    [2-content-]
    [2-content-]
  • 1-background1
    [1-text]

Home

HomeJames Beller2015-07-01T03:57:52+00:00

The Expiration of Fundamentalism

James Beller
Fundamentalism as a classical movement expired long ago.

The purpose of this writing is to retool your mind. If your identity is cloudy,
your direction is also. So let us proceed with sword drawn seeking to regain
precious ground as independent Baptists.

For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you
again which be the first principles of the oracles of God; and are become such
as have need of milk, and not of strong meat. 13 For every one that useth milk
is unskilful in the word of righteousness: for he is a babe.

14 But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by
reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil.

6:1 Therefore leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on
unto perfection; not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works,
and of faith toward God, 2 Of the doctrine of baptisms, and of laying on of
hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment. Hebrews
5:12-Hebrews 6:2

One of the greatest stories of the American experience was the crucible of
Isaac Backus. Most Americans cannot now comprehend the colonial theological
battle over baptism. It was real and it carried grave consequences.

Isaac Backus was a Congregational preacher caught in the whirlwind of the Great
Awakening of the 1740’s. After hearing a sermon from Eleazer Wheelock, Backus
acknowledged his disparate condition before God, turned to Jesus Christ for his
only remedy and was born-again by the Spirit of God. Backus thus became one of
those derisively called “New Lights,” because he had embraced the Saviour and
had a conversion experience.

He now began a search of the scriptures to see if there was any evidence of his
former religious state. That is, he wanted to know exactly what he was
scripturally when he was a christened member of the Congregational Church, but
not yet a Christian. Ah, what John Clarke and Roger Williams insisted when they
said, “Christening maketh not Christians,” became large in Backus’s mind.
Clarke and Williams suffered for this affirmation as did Obadiah Holmes and
many others. Without infant christening the New England colonists were not
citizens. There was still a residue of this in Backus’s time.

After a period of much study, Backus simply came to the logical conclusion that
infant sprinkling was not found in the Bible. Since the practice of infant
sprinkling was not scriptural and had no warrant to be done, it simply expired.
That is, it simply was a fiction and did not exist. We see the classic movement
of historic Fundamentalism in the same light.

I want to bring three issues to your attention: Fundamentalism as a practice,
Fundamentalism as a classic movement, and Independent Baptist Fundamentalism as
a culture.

I. FUNDAMENTALISM AS A PRACTICE

We could define fundamentalism as a practice as the active defense of the
fundamentals of the faith. All Baptist Christians should agree that we are to
earnestly contend for the faith. I think we can see that contending is
synonymous with fundamentalism as a practice. Fundamentalism as a practice is
what the apostle Paul commands us to do in Jude :3, “…it was needful for me to
write unto you, and exhort you that ye should earnestly contend for the faith
which was once delivered unto the saints.” So in this sense, we are commanded
to fundamentalism, fundamentalism as a practice. If we define fundamentalism as
“contending for the faith,” it will always be a part of our walk.

Some may refer to this as “militancy,” as David Cloud writes:

“…to claim that Fundamentalism was NOT characterized by militancy for truth, to
claim that fighting and separating have NOT been a significant aspect of
historic Fundamentalism, is to fly in the face of history.”

The Five Pointed Creed of Fundamentalism

Concerning a creed, the movement of Fundamentalism militantly defended a number
of essentials, usually encapsulated by the declaration of the 1910 General
Assembly of the Northern Presbyterian church. They are:

1. Inerrancy of the Scripture (in the original languages)

2. Deity of Christ.

3. Blood Atonement

4. Bodily Resurrection

5. Christ’s Return

As a principled Baptist, I would say there is quite a bit missing from the
short list of fundamentals. Principles of repentance and baptism immediately
come to mind. While the 5 tenets are certainly good points of doctrine, it is
an incomplete set of beliefs.

It is believed that articulation of basic fundamentalist beliefs can be traced
to the Niagara Bible Conferences and in 1910, to the General Assembly of the
Northern Presbyterian Church. It was there where a declaration was made which
became known as the “Five Fundamentals.”

The fundamental creed of 5 tenets is accepted almost universally. George M.
Marsden, in “Fundamentalism and American Culture,” (1980) part III says this
about the five points of the creed:

“The first formulation of American fundamentalist beliefs can be traced to the
Niagara Bible Conference and, in 1910, to the General Assembly of the
Presbyterian Church which distilled these into what became known as the ‘five
fundamentals’:[7]

The inspiration of the Bible and the inerrancy of Scripture

The virgin birth of Christ.

The belief that Christ’s death was the atonement for sin.

The bodily resurrection of Christ.

The historical reality of Christ’s miracles.”

John Rice stated the five points with slight variation, in his book, “I am a
Fundamentalist.”

Curtis Hutson also with little difference acknowledged this five pointed creed
in his book “Who is a Fundamentalist.”

David Cloud also states the accepted creed (with a few extras) as:

“…the doctrine of the Trinity; the incarnation, virgin birth, substitutionary
atonement, bodily resurrection and glorious ascension, and Second Coming of the
Lord Jesus Christ; the new birth through regeneration by the Holy Spirit; the
resurrection of the saints to life eternal; the resurrection of the ungodly to
final judgment and eternal death; the fellowship of the saints, who are the
body of Christ.” (See: http://www.wayoflife.org/database/fivefundamentals.html)

The five point creed of Fundamentalism has long been ingrained in the language
of the independent Baptists. We have been socially engineered to accept its
incomplete set of five tenets. This has devalued the first principles and
caused a disregard for the ordinances of the New Testament local church.

Primary Principles Devalued

Heb. 5:12-6:2

1. Repentance and faith

2. Baptisms

3. Laying on of hands (ordination)

4. Resurrection

5. Eternal Judgment

If you doubt this consider the following four examples:

International Baptist Network

This fellowship was founded in the year 2005. Their web site provided the basis
of their unity in their fellowship:

“What will hold together the International Baptist Network is fundamental
doctrine. And what doc­trine is fundamental to Christianity? First, the Bible
is the inerrant, inspired Word of God without error, and is the only authority
for Christians and churches. Second, Jesus was born of a virgin and is the
God-Man. Third, the sinless Son of God died a substitutionary death for sinners
and those who be­lieve in Him can be forgiven of their sins and guar­anteed a
home in eternity with God. Fourth, the physical resurrection of Jesus Christ
from the dead gives new life to all believers. Fifth, the bodily return of
Jesus Christ at the end of this age will complete God’s plan and purpose on
this earth.”[1]

So, to be clear, the new IBN is a Fundamentalist or­ganization, based on the
five tenets of fundamentalism.

John Piper

John Piper, the famed pastor of the Bethlehem Baptist Church of Minneapolis,
Minnesota, has gone on record diminishing the primary principles. Several years
ago, Piper led his independent Baptist church to adopt a new constitution.
Since the church had a large contingency of Reformed persons, it was debated
whether to allow believers who had not been properly baptized to become
members. Piper addressed his congregation on the matter:

“The most obvious change… is allowing the possi­bility that a person may become
a member who has not been baptized by immersion as a believer but who regards
the baptismal ritual he received in in­fancy not as regenerating, but
nevertheless (as with most Presbyterians) in such a way that it would vio­late
his conscience to be baptized as a believer. The elders are proposing that
under certain conditions such persons be admitted to full membership. After
more than three years of study and prayer and discussion of this issue, the
Council of Elders believes that membership requirements at Bethle­hem should
move toward being roughly the same as the requirements for membership in the
universal body of Christ.[2]”

“It is troubling that we require agreement on the doctrine of baptism but not
on more important mat­ters like the nature of God’s sovereign grace, the way of
salvation by effectual calling, the gift of faith, the nature and power of
depravity, the freedom of the will, the work of God in the perseverance of the
saints, etc.”[3]

After reading the above points of Calvinism to his congregation, Piper said,
“All of those things are more important than agreeing on the time and mode of
bap­tism in my judgment. All of them…the great reformed truths that we love.”
[4]

So the tenets of a 16th century Augustinian monk hold more value than the words
of God in the mind of John Piper. Congratulations Mr. Piper, you no longer
pastor a Baptist church.

Baptist Friends International

When the website Baptist Friends International appeared, it included a
statement of faith. The statement of faith was a re-statement of the five
fundamentals. I wrote (I am sure I was not the only one) a letter to the site
and stated:

“Not trying to be unkind, but, since your statement of faith says nothing about
the practice of baptism, are we to assume that Presbyterians and Methodists can
be ‘Baptist Friends’ too?”

To my readers, I truly am not trying to be difficult here, but does this not
illustrate how we continue to be severed from our roots? I mean the first
principles as outlined in Hebrews 5:12—6:2?

And what was the answer to this inquiry of mine? Baptist Friends International
simply removed the page that featured their statement of faith.

Clayton Reed’s Church Works Network

Clayton Reed co-authored a book on church polity entitled, Church Works. It was
released in 2009 on the heels of extensive research on the part of Reed. Since
the release of the book, Reed has launched the Church Works Network, an effort
to help Independent Baptists plant churches.

In early 2011, after reading the statement of faith and reading a few of Clay
Reed’s posts on his church blog, I emailed him to ask him a very simple but
pointed question. We exchanged several communications. Here is what transpired:

ME: Bro. Reed, in contemplating several of your posts on your blog, I have a
question: Is baptism by immersion fundamental to Christian faith?

CLAY REED: I believe baptism by immersion is fundament to Baptist faith.

ME: I didn’t ask if baptism by immersion is fundamental to the Baptist faith, I
asked: Is baptism by immersion fundamental to Christian faith?

CLAY REED: Have a great ministry, brother.

In looking at Clayton Reed’s writings, he explains his position on
ecclesiastical separation based on the five fundamentals, citing the old-time
fundamentalists. The primary principles of Hebrews 5:12-6:2 are disregarded. A
man who has launched a ministry to direct young independent Baptist preachers
in the vital area of church planting is not sure baptism is fundamental to the
faith. Again, this diminishes the first principles. I suppose we should not be
surprised, knowing the director’s education and his experience in the
Fundamentalist movement.

II. FUNDAMENTALISM AS A CLASSIC MOVEMENT

Fundamentalism as a movement is an entirely different matter than
Fundamentalism as a practice. Fundamentalism as a movement has a traceable
history. Events in the past define the movement.

What may interest independent Baptists of today are the facts surrounding
Baptist participation in things like the Evangelical Alliance. What was their
typical response?

The Baptists And Various Protestant Union Efforts:

The Christian Union

Prior to the Civil War, an attempt was made by the Pedobaptists to unify
non-Roman Catholic denominations in America. This effort was led in the
beginning by Henry Ward Beecher, the Boston Congregationalist. Beecher believed
that a “great evangelical assimilation” was coming to the United States.
[William McGloughlin Jr., Modern Revivalism (Providence: Ronald Press Co.,
1959), P. 37.] It was known as the “Christian Union.” The Baptists largely
rejected this idea fearing they would violate their principles.

Thomas Armitage, the famed Baptist historian and pastor, attended several
Christian Union meetings and was not impressed. None of the leaders of
Christian Union were Baptist and had publicly blamed the Baptists for the lack
of unity among the denominations. The Presbyterian preacher John Chambers, had
said in his pulpit in Philadelphia, “The world cannot be converted until the
church is united, and the church cannot be united until the Baptists renounce*
‘close’ communion.”[i]

In the city of New York, in 1866, Dutch Reformed pastor Dr. Vermilye, charged
the Baptists with “bigotry and exclusiveness.” His remarks became part of the
public record.

It came to pass that Thomas Armitage was asked to speak at the next meeting of
the Christian Union Association. This meeting was held at the Twenty-Ninth
Street Dutch Reformed Church, the church pastored by Dr. Vermilye. Armitage
determined to answer both Dr. Vermilye and the leadership of the Christian
Union Association and agreed to speak. There he delivered his message,
Christian Union: Real and Unreal.

In his message Armitage said, “As far as I can discover, my Pedobaptist
brethren seem to think that [Christian union] consists very largely in a
warm-hearted, loving feeling toward each other as regenerated men…
disagreement, if you can agree about it, is unity!”[ii]

“There were those that emphasized the good feeling from the Christian Union,”
Armitage said, “This good feeling is looked upon, very generally, as good,
fair, Bible Christian union. Well, it may be; but if it is, things have changed
vastly since apostolic times. The truth is, that kindly feeling is not
Christian union, and may exist where ‘the unity of the faith,’ is rent into a
thousand shreds.”[iii]

Clearly, Armitage’s problem with the Christian Union was principle. Baptism is
a primary principle. See Hebrews 5:12-6:2.

Armitage pointed out that Baptists and Pedobaptists were diametrically opposed
on the issue of baptism and therefore were in disagreement about church
membership, and even what constituted a church. If the Christian Union called
for Baptists to hold communion (the Lord’s Supper) with Pedobaptists then the
Baptists and the Pedobaptists would both have to violate their own principles.

Armitage’s stand was the death knell for the Christian Union movement.

The Baptists And Various Protestant Union Efforts:

The Missionary Union Meeting Movement

Though rarely discussed, the Baptists of the South had a controversy about
“Union Meetings” on the mission field at the turn of the 20th century. Once
again the Baptists were accused of bigotry and unreasonableness. Their position
on baptism was called into question. Some of the criticism of the Baptist
principled stand on immersion for believers only came from the president of
Southern Seminary, William Whitsitt. However, other winds of criticism came
from the North.

Two sources of the criticism were Henry Veddar, a Baptist historian who was a
prodigy of Whitsitt, and surprisingly, the infamous John D. Rockefeller, Jr.
Most people would be shocked to know that Rockefeller claimed to be a Baptist.

It was Rockefeller, with a gift of 20 million dollars who took charge of the
University of Chicago, transforming it from a preacher-training institution to
a staging area for the march of modernism and globalism. Rockefeller and his
dramatist, Veddar purposely undermined the primary principles of the Baptist
churches. In the archives of the Southern Baptist Seminary library, Louisville,
KY. PCMS 86 4/382, we find this entry:

“…no little alarm was excited in Baptist circles by a pamphlet in the interest
of the Union Movement written by John D. Rockefeller, Jr., and widely
distributed, urging Baptists no longer to require baptism as a condition of
church membership. About the same time, Professor H. C. Vedder of Crozer
Seminary published a paper in which it was argued that the Baptist position on
baptism was untenable. It was already known that Mr. Rockefeller was using his
great wealth to support the Union Movement… After this the Union Movement had
little favor among Southern Baptists.” (PCMS – Archive of Southern Baptist
Seminary, Louisville, KY. PCMS 86 4/382)

Veddar’s Baptist history book was used by independent Baptist colleges as
recently as 2009.

The Baptists And Various Protestant Union Efforts:

The Evangelical Alliance

A few years after the Christian Union movement was rejected by Baptists and at
the same time the Union Movement among missions in the SBC was in the
experimental stage, another movement gained ground in America. It was known as
The Evangelical Alliance.

This organization was formed by various leaders of the Protestant religious
societies in an effort to bring the Gospel to the growing urban areas of
America.

The Alliance greatly benefited the Congregational evangelists E. P. Hammond and
D. L. Moody; and the Methodist evangelist Sam P. Jones. Once again, the
Baptists for the most part respectfully declined joining the Alliance. The
Evan­gelical Alliance became a powerful religious entity, but the age of
Modernism began and threatened its effectiveness.

From the mid-19th century, colleges of all denominations found themselves in
various degrees of doctrinal corruption through Modernism. A battle was begun
by men in the various denominations. The movement that sprang from the battle
against Modernism was called “Fundamentalism.”

Even though all the movements of the 19th century failed to capture the
Baptists, the ecumenical movement of Fundamentalism succeeded.

THE CLASSIC FUNDAMENTALIST MOVEMENT

As we have stated, Fundamentalism as a movement came from the efforts of many
preachers and organizations.

The movement can be generally seen as beginning with conservative Presbyterian
theologians at Princeton Theological Seminary in the late 19th century. It soon
spread to conservatives among the Baptists and other denominations around
1910-1920. Men such as Presbyterians R. A. Torrey, James H. Brookes, and G.
Gresham Machen; Methodists such as Bob Jones Sr.; and Baptists such as John
Roach Stratton and John R. Rice all defended the Bible. The movement’s purpose
was to reaffirm key theological tenets and zealously defend them against the
challenges of liberal theology and Modernism.

The term “fundamentalism” has its roots in the Niagara Bible Conferences
(1878–1897) which defined those tenets it considered fundamental to Christian
belief.

Fundamentalism as a classic movement was promoted greatly by the release of the
twelve volume set of books called simply, “The Fundamentals,” which was edited
by R. A. Torrey, and published in 1910. Periodicals such as John R. Rice’s, The
Sword of the Lord, also contributed to the progress of the Fundamentalist
movement.

In my opinion, the Fundamentalist movement fulfilled its purpose to heighten
awareness of the attack of modernism on the Bible, and to defend the inerrancy
of the scriptures. For this we are grateful.

I was preaching in a Baptist history conference at a well known Baptist
college. I gave details on the old Evangelical Alliance of the 19th century.
After I had spoken in a morning session, a college professor questioned my
thoughts on the Fundamentalist movement, because I taught there was no real
reason for independent Baptists to be associated with the Fundamentalist
movement any longer. This puzzled the teacher.

I said, “Could you define the Fundamentalist movement as an effort of
Bible-believers to rescue the old Evangelical Alliance from unbelief?” He
thought about it and answered in the affirmative. So I said, “So then,
technically Fundamentalism as a movement no longer exists does it?” He looked
even more puzzled. I said, “Are independent Baptists trying to rescue the
Evangelical Alliance from unbelief? Are independent Baptists yoked with
Methodists and Presbyterians in evangelistic campaigns?”

The answer to these questions is of course, no. The classic Fundamentalist
movement of the late 19th and early 20th century has come and gone.

III. INDEPENDENT BAPTIST FUNDAMENTALISM AS A CULTURE

A culture is something that grows from an accident, experience or an
experiment. [get definition]

Now what has happened to Fundamentalism as a movement? As it passed out of
existence it evolved into primarily an independent Baptist movement. Though the
classic, historic, ecumenical movement known as Fundamentalism truly no longer
exists, the culture it created is still alive. No one bothered to properly
report its evolution as a movement. But the hybrid culture is still there. And
we have been socially engineered to accept its culture. This has happened
through camp meetings, pastor’s conferences, colleges, and periodicals. Even
though evidence shows that independent Baptists do not unite with Presbyterians
and Methodists in revival meetings, union campaigns and mission efforts,
independent Baptists are still stuck in the identification meme of
Fundamentalism.

We need to ask, “Are independent Baptists trying to rescue the Evangelical
Alliance from unbelief?” And do we share pulpits with Presbyterians, Methodists
and Congregationalists? If the answer is no, and it is, then there is no such
things as classic Fundamentalism as a movement. It only exists as an evolved
culture. The culture stays alive by independent Baptists promoting every
Protestant revivalist and evangelist from the past while denying the heritage
of its true ancestors.

The Fundamentalist Movement completed its evolution into an independent Baptist
culture around 1976. Some of the evolved culture is good. Its emphasis on
aggressively preaching the Gospel to lost souls is good. Its standards of
separation are good. But, the independent Baptist culture is good only as it is
scriptural. We must admit that some of this culture devolved into some bad
Christianity. What do I mean?

Fundamentalism as a movement has given the independent Baptists:

1. A socially engineered mindset that diminishes the ordinances of the New
Testament Church.

2. Adherence to a model of super-church that is neither realistic nor practical
in reaching the country.

3. Personality driven, business-driven, and empire-building ministry models.
These models place undue pressure on ministerial families.

4. Severance of historic testimony.

5. Loss of the simple, pastor-initiated church-planting model.

6. Sin resulting from frustration and comparison.

7. An educational system that promotes and perpetuates Protestantism.

8. Unconfessed and unaccounted for sin on the part of leadership.

The bald naked truth of the matter is that we don’t need Fundamentalism. We
ought to be what we are: principled Baptists. Do not surrender your principles!
The classic Fundamentalist movement was not scriptural, it does not now exist
in its original form, and has no warrant to be continued as a movement. In
short, Fundamentalism as a classical movement has expired.

[1] http://www.nljonline.com/ index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=20&
Itemid=2

[2] John Piper, “What the Elders Are Proposing: Amendments to the Constitution
and By-Laws” August 31, 2005. http://www.desiringgod.org/library/fresh_words/
2005/083105.html

[3] John Piper, Alex Chediak and Tom Steller, “Baptism and Church Membership At
Bethlehem Baptist Church, Eight Recommendations for Constitutional Revision,”
August 9, 2005. p. 19. http://www.desiringgod.org/library

[4] Ibid., September 14, 2005.

* For example, the Kentucky Baptist historian J. H. Spencer noted that the
Salem Association handled a question of order from the 1803 meeting. The
question concerned the subject of “communing with other than Baptist societies,
which was decided to be out of Gospel order.” Spencer, A History of the
Kentucky Baptists vol. 2: 52.

[i] Thomas Armitage, “Christian Union, Real and Unreal,” Doctrinal and
Practical Tracts (New York: Thomas Holman, 1884), P. 5.

[ii] Ibid.

[iii] Armitage, “Christian Union,” 4.

By James Beller|2015-02-20T00:53:02+00:00October 13th, 2011|Categories:
Fundamentalism|0 Comments|

Read More

123Next

Comments are closed.

Independent Baptist Roll Call

  • Alaska
  • Alabama
  • Arizona
  • Arkansas
  • California
  • Colorado
  • Connecticut
  • Delaware
  • Florida
  • Georgia
  • Hawaii
  • Idaho
  • Illinois
  • Indiana
  • Iowa
  • Kansas
  • Kentucky
  • Louisiana
  • Maine
  • Maryland
  • Massachusetts
  • Michigan
  • Minnesota
  • Mississippi
  • Missouri
  • Montana
  • Nebraska
  • Nevada
  • New Hampshire
  • New Jersey
  • New Mexico
  • New York
  • North Carolina
  • North Dakota
  • Ohio
  • Oklahoma
  • Oregon
  • Pennsylvania
  • Rhode Island
  • South Carolina
  • South Dakota
  • Tennessee
  • Texas
  • Utah
  • Vermont
  • Virginia
  • Washington
  • West Virginia
  • Wisconsin
  • Wyoming
  • District of Columbia
  • Canada
  • Missions
  • Church Plants or Starts
  • Update Your Listing

Copyright 2012 Avada | All Rights Reserved | Powered by WordPress | Theme
Fusion
