Eldercare Inc
[                    ] Search
Eldercare is one of the largest and most experienced aged care and retirement
living providers in South Australia.

Our organisation operates at 22 locations throughout the Adelaide metropolitan
area and country South Australia (Yorke Peninsula).

Aged Care

  • Residential Aged Care
  • Community Care
  • Day Therapy Centre

Eldercare provides aged care in 12 residential facilities across South
Australia, as well as home-based community care on the Yorke Peninsula.

All of our modern and comfortable facilities are fully accredited. We provide
24 hour nursing care, individual care plans and tailored therapy services, and
our teams of highly trained staff and dedicated volunteers are passionate about
providing the highest quality care possible.

Retirement Living

  • Retire with Eldercare
  • Our Locations
  • Register your Interest

Is it time to make a decision about retirement living?

Eldercare has 13 retirement sites in beachside, city, hills and country
locations.

All our units and villas have modern, up-to-date facilities designed for
ageing-in-place, and are available at affordable prices.


Work for Us

  • Work for Eldercare
  • Vacancies
  • Employee Benefits

Are you looking for:

  • The chance to make a difference to the lives of others?
  • Access to outstanding employee benefits?
  • Best practice learning and development opportunities?
  • Professional and modern working facilities?

Then Eldercare is for you!

Volunteer

  • Volunteer at Eldercare
  • Volunteer Opportunities
  • How to Volunteer
  • Register your Interest
  • School Involvement at Eldercare

Volunteers make an extraordinary contribution to the Eldercare family. 

Volunteering at Eldercare is your opportunity to be active in an organisation
that provides quality aged care services for over 1,000 people in metropolitan
Adelaide, Mount Barker and the Yorke Peninsula.

  • Allambi sod turning

    Eldercare recently held a ceremony celebrating the start of works for the
    Allambi redevelopment.

     

    [m-thumb2-248-225x160]

     

  • Retirement Properties

      □ College Green, Kent Town
        Unit 13: 1 bedroom unit - $121,000
        Open plan, fully refurbished downstairs unit with lush village green
        outlook. Close to the City's East End.
      □ Cottage Grove Court, Woodcroft
        Villa 1: 2 bedroom unit - Under Contract
        New, modern villa with two bedrooms plus study, open plan living and
        private rear and central courtyards.
      □ Kingsborough, Norwood
        Unit 28: 1 bedroom unit - $143,000
        Well-appointed unit with tranquil garden outlook, easy walk to public
        transport, shops and The Parade.
      □ Oxford, Hove
        Unit 20: 1 bedroom unit - $310,000
        Spacious refurbished upstairs unit with ample storage and short walk to
        beach.
      □ Oxford, Hove
        Unit 15: 2 bedroom unit - $335,000
        First floor unit with open plan dining/lounge area and spacious
        balcony.
      □ Sash Ferguson, Mount Barker - Coming Soon!
        Unit 7: 1 bedroom unit - $99,000
        Fully refurbished unit, new kitchen and bathroom, open plan living.
        Available March 2016.
  • Day Therapy Centre

    Feel better and maintain your independence, and social connections, with
    our affordable and effective rehabilitation therapies.

     

    Our Day Therapy Centre at Hendon offers tailored support so you get the
    help and encouragement you need to achieve optimal health and wellness.

  • What's New

      □ Retire in style at Elanora Villas
        January 12th
        Leading South Australian aged care provider Eldercare will unveil plans
        for its proposed premium retirement living development, Elanora Villas,
        at an on-site open day in Stansbury on Saturday 16 January.

    Read News

  • Residential Care Locations
    Acacia Court - Hendon
    Allambi - Glengowrie
    Cottage Grove - Woodcroft
    Elanora - Stansbury
    Evanston Park - Evanston Park
    Kirkholme - Goodwood
  • Oxford - Hove
    Sash Ferguson - Mount Barker
    Seaford - Seaford
    The Lodge - Wayville
    The Village - Maitland
    Trowbridge House - Payneham
  • Eldercare - Head Office
    247 Fullarton Road
    Eastwood SA 5063
    P: (08) 8291 1000
    F: (08) 8291 1098 admin.headoffice@eldercare.net.au
  • Employee Centre
  • 

(C) Eldercare Inc 2016  |  About Eldercare  |  News  |  Contact Us  |  Site Map
 |  Donations  |  Credits  |  Privacy  |  Disclaimer

 
