
  • Home
  • About Us
  • Calendar
  • Donate
  • Contact Us

[logo1]

Grants Pass, Oregon

If you are looking for a Christian community, this is your personal invitation
to come to Calvary, not only for Sunday morning worship, but also to join with
us in any of the many activities we offer that interest you. Calvary Lutheran
Church is a friendly and caring place, where people of all ages and backgrounds
meet together in Christian worship, and share in mutual support and fellowship.
We believe that God has so made us that we all need mutual support and
fellowship. And the nature of the Christian faith is that it thrives best
within a community of believers. Give us a call and may God bless you.

Worship

Sunday
8:30am Blended Worship
9:45am Sunday School all ages
10:45am Traditional Worship
Wednesday
6:00pm Worship

Sunday’s Sermon:



                            Your browser does not support the audio element.


Information and News

Calvary Lutheran Church is a member congregation of the Evangelical Lutheran
Church in America and the Lutheran World Federation

Today’s Bible Reading

Calvary Caller

ELCA

Special Events

 
 
 

About Us

Calvary Lutheran Mission Statement

Called by God's name,  
Responding to God's unconditional love for us, Empowered by the Holy Spirit,  
We at Calvary Lutheran Church  
Shall serve our local and global community in Jesus' Name 

ELCA History

A merger of three Lutheran churches formed the ELCA in 1988. They were The
American Lutheran Church, the Association of Evangelical Lutheran Churches and
the Lutheran Church in America. Now 25 years later, the ELCA is a church that
shares a living, daring confidence in God’s grace. As members of the ELCA, we
believe that we are freed in Christ to serve and love our neighbor. With our
hands, we do God’s work of restoring and reconciling communities in Jesus
Christ’s name throughout the world. We trace our roots back through the
mid-17th century, when early Lutherans came to America from Europe, settling in
the Virgin Islands and the area that is now known as New York. Even before
that, Martin Luther sought reform for the church in the 16th century, laying
the framework for our beliefs. 

Ministries and Programs Available

Music/Choir  
Fellowship  
Mission Outreach  
Side-by-Side Ministry  
Stewardship  
Stitchcrafters  
Men's Bible Study/Breakfast  
Children's Ministry/Vacation Bible School  
Sunday School and Education  
Adult Bible Studies  
Family Ministries 
Young Adult/Couple/Singles Groups

Missionary Support 

We are sponsoring Luke and Ruth S. who work in the Southern Philippines doing
Bible Translation work and are doing scripture engagement with an unreached
people group. Because of the sensitive nature of the area where they work,
we're limited in what we can write about them online. For more information you
can go to the 'World Mission Prayer League' website  HERE

Church Council and Officers

Steve Ware, President 
John Mason, Vice President 
Gary Blom, Treasurer 
Suzanne Wicklin, Council Secretary 
Karen Blom, Worship and Music 
Gwen Childs, Outreach 
Karen Lebow, Fellowship 
Karl Dinkel, Family Ministries 
Karen Mastel, Publicity 
Diane Weaver, Parish Education

Staff

David Johnsen, Pastor 
Sandy Hoadley, Secretary 
Rick Kelly, Coordinator of Family Ministries 
Nancy Hodgson, Director of Music Ministry 
Wendy Ross, Director of Choirs 
Jill Cook, Organist 
Butch Kurth, Custodian 
Sharon Matson, Financial Secretary

 

Calendar

 

Donate

Push to Donate
 

Ways to give at Calvary Lutheran Church

"Whatever gift each of you have received, use it in service to one another..."
1 Peter 4:10"

Online Donation with Simply Giving 
Simply Giving is a program designed to help you contribute conveniently through
a secure online site. Reasons to sign up for electronic giving:

  • No need to write checks or bring cash to church
  • Contribute using a checking account, debit card or credit card
  • Peace of mind knowing that the church is receiving your contribution on a
    regular basis even if you are unable to attend
  • Ability to make a one time gift to a special fund

Two ways to sign up today:

 1. Complete the secure Online Donation form
 2. Print the Authorization Form. Complete this form and return to the church
    office

We would encourage you to limit your recurring automatic withdrawals to once a
month to reduce the cost per transaction fee that the church must pay.  

Memorial Fund, Gifts in Kind, Special Gifts
Honor a loved one with a gift to Calvary's Memorial Fund, donate an item or
service, or give a one time special monetary gift towards a present Calvary
ministry

Endowment Fund  
The Endowment Fund was formed to receive and administer planned gifts that will
have an impact beyond the life of the donor. For more details click  HERE or
pick up a brochure in the church office.  

Thrivent Choice Dollars  
If you are a member of Thrivent Financial for Lutherans and eligible for the
Thrivent Choice giving program, we hope that you will remember Calvary
when designating your Choice Dollars. More information can be found  HERE

 

Contact Us

Calvary Lutheran Church

909 NE A Street
Grants Pass, OR 97526

phone: 541-479-2577

email: calvluth@calvarylutherangp.org

webmaster
 
 
 

Copyright © 2015 Calvary Lutheran Church, Grants Pass, OR

