[jsLogo1]
Next event in
No entries Found
Skip to content

  • Home
  • Christ in Ancient America
  • Contact
  • First Vision
  • Link Tools
  • Testimony
      □ Testimony Page 2

map2 firstvision-3
Podcast
Joseph Smith and the Importance and Historiography of the First Vision 
[micfront]
Map Us

Joseph Smith, Prophet of God (1805 - 1844)

  • 
  • Upcoming Events

      □ No entries found
  • RSS BYU Tech News

      □ BYU researchers improve genome assembly, stumble upon signatures for
        genetic disorders January 8, 2016
        A team of computer scientists at BYU looking for a better way to
        assemble DNA sequences was successful in more ways than one. The group
        developed a new algorithm that is not only more sensitive to detecting
        genetic variation, but can also identify markers for several common
        disorders. 
      □ Tupperware designers tap BYU ideas to reach millennials January 6, 2016
        It’s not often you get to present concepts to a global company with
        more than $2.6 billion in operating revenue, but for BYU industrial
        design students, it’s just part of class.
      □ U mad bro? Researchers measure emotion with your mouse clicks December
        14, 2015
        Most people can tell if you’re angry based on the way you’re acting.
        Professor Jeffrey Jenkins can tell if you’re angry by the way you move
        a computer mouse.
      □ NASA takes flight with BYU student’s work November 18, 2015
        The sky’s the limit for BYU computer science student Andrew Wallace.
        Partnering with NASA, the senior is studying the world’s busiest air
        space and designing simulations to improve workloads for air traffic
        controllers.
      □ BYU researchers speeding up process of making vaccines November 18,
        2015
        Researchers at BYU have devised a system to speed up the process of
        making life-saving vaccines for new viruses.
      □ Cinematic version of Charlie Brown shaped by BYU prof, alums’ pens 
        November 4, 2015
        Transforming the iconic two-dimensional work of Charles Schulz to a
        three dimensional feature-length film is no easy feat, but that was the
        challenge for a BYU professor and six alumni who contributed
        significantly to The Peanuts Movie.

  • RSS Mormon Scholars Testify

      □ Edward L. Kimball
        As a teenager, I liked to speculate about religion with my parents. My
        general attitude about religion was skeptical; I felt it the
        responsibility of others to build my faith. ...[more] […]
      □ Brian Shirts
        My religious faith parallels my faith in evolutionary principles; they
        are both beliefs based on study paired with longitudinal experience.
        ...[more] […]
      □ Bruce L. Brown
        Truly the scriptural record of the promised Messiah and of the prophets
        who have testified of him is the greatest story ever told. There is
        much joy in striving to follow the Savior through following his living
        prophet. ...[more] […]
      □ Stephen C. Yanchar
        What invited me to study the gospel was this deep desire to know the
        truth. There were some days, when I was in college and graduate school,
        that I couldn’t stand not knowing the meaning of life. ...[more]
  • RSS Daily Messages

      □ What are you Thinking?
        "There exists today a great need for men and women to cultivate respect
        for each other." —Craig W. Zwick, "What are you Thinking?
        "Topics: Family
      □ Turn to Him and Answers Will Come
        "Your answer will come…It may not come as quickly or in the format you
        desire but the answer will come. Do not give up!" —James B. Martino,
        "Turn to Him and Answers Will Come"Topics: Prayer
      □ Keep the Commandments
        "The commandments…were God-given. Using our agency, we can set them
        aside. We cannot, however, change them." —Thomas S. Monson, "Keep the
        Commandments"Topics: Commandments
      □ A Priceless Heritage of Hope
        "Whoever you are and wherever you may be…every day and every hour you
        can choose to make or keep a covenant with God." —Henry B. Eyring, "A
        Priceless Heritage of Hope"Topics: Obedience
      □ Grateful in Any Circumstances
        "When we are grateful to God in our circumstances, we can experience
        gentle peace in the midst of tribulation." —Dieter F. Uchtdorf,
        "Grateful in Any Circumstances"Topics: Gratitude
      □ Filling our Homes with Light and Truth
        "Strong eternal families and Spirit-filled homes do not just happen.
        They take great effort." —Cheryl A. Esplin, "Filling our Homes with
        Light and Truth"Topics: Family
      □ Choose the Light
        "Apostolic voices urge us to prepare ourselves with the powerful light
        of spiritual strength." —Vern P. Stanfill, "Choose the
        Light"Topics: Truth

  • Book of Mormon

    Book of Mormon Commentary is designed to assist teachers and students of
    the gospel. The format is set up to provide more information on the most
    important topics in any given chapter of scripture. Specific quotes from
    the General Authorities are given to confirm the validity of the doctrine
    being taught and to provide good quotes for use in classes and talks.
  • RSS Recent News

      □ Mormons Around the World Country Newsroom Websites January 12, 2015 
        January 12, 2016 The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
      □ Provo City Center Temple Ready for Public Tours January 11, 2016 The
        Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
      □ Church Announces New Missions in Africa, Asia January 7, 2016 The
        Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
      □ Reservations Begin for Provo City Center Temple Open House January 4,
        2016 The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
      □ Philadelphia Mormon Temple Reaches Significant Construction Milestone 
        January 4, 2016 The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
      □ Church Responds to Inquiries Regarding Oregon Armed Occupation January
        4, 2016 The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
  • RSS General LDS News

      □ Mormons Around the World Country Newsroom Websites January 12, 2015 
        January 12, 2016
        SALT LAKE CITY | Tuesday, 12 January 2016 | MormonNewsroom.org features
        stories from its international Newsroom websites to share what leaders
        and members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints around
        the world are doing to better the communities in which they live.
        The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
      □ Provo City Center Temple Ready for Public Tours January 11, 2016
        Provo, Utah | Monday, 11 January 2016 | A public open house for the
        Provo City Center Temple of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
        Saints begins on January 15, 2016, following a five-year renovation of
        the former Provo Tabernacle, a more than century-old icon located in
        the central Utah community of Provo.
        The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
      □ Church Announces New Missions in Africa, Asia January 7, 2016
        SALT LAKE CITY | Thursday, 07 January 2016 | The Church of Jesus Christ
        of Latter-day Saints announced January 7, 2016, the formation of three
        new missions: the Democratic Republic of the Congo Mbuji-Mayi Mission,
        the Nigeria Owerri Mission and the Vietnam Hanoi Mission.
        The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
      □ Reservations Begin for Provo City Center Temple Open House January 4,
        2016
        SALT LAKE CITY | Monday, 04 January 2016 | The Provo City Center Temple
        public open house begins Friday, January 15, 2016. 
        The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Close
Need Driving Directions? Click here
JosephSmith.com – Joseph Smith American Prophet, Biography (C) (2016)
JosephSmith.com.
 web page hit counter
