Rock Dove Publicationstoll-free (888) HIS-DOVE

    Our Products:
    “Copy Me!” Bible Quizzes Devotions for Hunters and Anglers Messianic Psalms
    Raccoon Hunting Basics and Beyond Hunting and the Bible The Prodigal Pooch
    Tract Rail Rider Tract
    Raccoon Hunting Questions Tape Devotions for Bird Hunters Devotions for Dog
    Lovers The Bird Hunter’s Prayer Hunting Arguments Dominion over Wildlife
    Ordering:
    Order through Paypal below.
    Printable Order Form
    Specials:
    “Litter of Ten” Special
    Boards:
    Pastor’s Wife's Support Board Raccoon Hunting Questions
    Pages of Interest to:
    Dog Lovers Pastors Pastor’s Wives Hunters Raccoon Hunters Deer Hunters Job
    Hunters
    Our Articles:
    Lonely, But Not Alone About Tom Rakow Barrie “Special” Andy Buck Fever
    Confessions of a Poacher How to Hunt Privately on Public Lands Untangling
    Christmas Traditions Raccoon Hunting Basics and Beyond Deer and Moose
    Hunting Pictures Dominique’s Column Endangered Species? Where’s that
    Pointer Pointing? The Prodigal Pooch The Coat A One-Eyed Squirrel Dog
    News Release:
    “Copy Me!” Bible Quizzes

                         Pastor's Wife's Support Board

 The purpose of this page is to support and encourage pastor's wives.  If you
  are a pastor's wife and have a question, helpful suggestion, or response to
  another question or suggestion, please fill out the form and click submit. 
            Responses will be added later.  Let's help each other!
                                    Page 2
                                    Page 3
                                    Page 4
                                    Page 5
                                    Page 6
                                    Page 7
                                    Page 8
                                    Page 9
                                    Page 10
                                    Page 11
                                    Page 12
                                    Page 13
                                    Page 14
                                    Page 15
                                    Page 16
                                    Page 17
                                    Page 18
                                    Page 19
                                    Page 20
                                    Page 21
                                    Page 22
                            Page 23 - Current Page

Small Town PW  10/11/97  I have been a pastor's wife since the day I was
married almost nine years ago.  Our first church was rural and now we are in a
small town.  Being a city girl, it has been a real education and stretching
experience in many ways.  God has challenged me and deepened my relationship
with Him and others.  One of the greatest areas of growth has been in learning
to pray earnestly for my husband and family in the spiritual realm.  What are
some of the ways that any of you have learned to pray for your husbands?

City Slicker PW  10/13/97  I'm more of a suburb-Suzi that has ended up in what
seems like an inner-city ministry.  Let's face it, life isn't easy being away
from what is comfortable for us.

Small Town PW  10/15/97  The Lord has been teaching me some neat things lately
about the circumstances that come in our life.  He has shown me first hand that
He can provide joy despite our circumstances, but last night He was teaching me
about what His will is for me in my circumstances - to be thankful.  1
Thessalonians 5:16-18 says "Be joyful always; pray continually; give thanks in
all circumstances, for this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus." (NIV,
emphasis mine)  Instead of fighting my circumstances internally, I should be
giving thanks.  Our women's Bible study is starting a new book called Firming
Up Your Flabby Faith by Vicki Lake.  It is a study of the book of James.  She
points out that we are to be better, not bitter; a victor, not a victim.  We
certainly have choices to make!

City Slicker PW  I couldn't agree more.  The Lord showed me the same thing when
Paul was in prison.  The angel broke open the doors, but the men chose to
remain until the timing was right.  We can be free in the Spirit, experience
God's presence, but still not be where we want to be.  It has to come from
within.

Small Town PW  The Lord showed me another passage!  2 Corinthians 12:10 --
"That is why, for Christ's sake, I delight in weaknesses, in insults, in
hardships, in persecutions, in difficulties.  For when I am weak, then I am
strong."  (NIV)

Marie  10/18/97  How does a pastor's wife deal with a husband who gives 24/7 to
the church and leftovers (if anything) to the family?

Rachel  10/20/97  Your question sounds very familiar and I'm afraid that it is
all too common.  I think one of the problems with the ministry is that there is
so much to do and it is all valuable and good.  How can we, as pastor's wives,
say, "No, honey.  I'm more important than telling Joe Smoe about the Lord"? 
I'm seriously thinking of writing a book How to Be the Husband of the Pastor's
Wife.  My husband tells me that I would need to get a different title if I want
pastors to read it.  There are two things that have helped me (I'm definitely
open to other suggestions).

 1. Pray, pray, pray.  Present your requests to the Lord and it is helpful to
    be specific.  What exactly would you like to see happen?  The Lord has
    graciously answered my prayers when I was being specific.
 2. Look to the Lord to meet your needs.  When I look to my husband to meet my
    needs, I just get frustrated.  The Lord can fulfill your needs in ways that
    your husband can't.

I'll be praying for you!

Ben  4/22/98  I think the book idea is a great one.  I would read it.

Margo  I certainly don't have a quick answer for your question, but I do know
what has helped my marriage, Marie.  First, I prayed that God would work in my
husband's heart to desire to be more available to me and our family.  Secondly,
I communicated with him my concern, without nagging.  Then I tried to encourage
him and positively reinforce him when he did take time for us.  If you create a
welcome, warm atmosphere, that will be part of the draw for him to desire to be
at home.  Often our husbands look for that affirmation outside the home,
because that's where all of the reinforcement comes from.  He is appreciated
when he minsters to people.  Well, we need to appreciate him when he ministers
to us as well.  Godspeed.

Jack Stalwart  Marie, as a pastor who is struggling with this same problem,
there may be certain root reasons in your husband's life of which he himself is
not aware.  Here are some that I have become aware of.

 1. I have been trying to break down the stereotype that pastors only work one
    day a week. Although people often say things jokingly about how little a
    preacher does - it does hurt - and is certainly not (for the most part)
    true.  I believe this is especially true in smaller churches.  There is a
    perception that fewer people - less work.  However, there are also unspoken
    expectations to do other tasks.  Examples: shovel snow, type bulletins, mow
    church lawn, clean, etc.
 2. Coupled with the first reason is that, in my family's farm background, the
    importance of work was strongly emphasized.  However, on the other hand,
    those who were slothful were almost committing an unpardonable sin.
 3. Another would be my fear of mere humans.  Afraid of being criticized for
    being lazy.  We should work hard - God did for six days, but He also set
    the example - and rested.

I will also be praying for you.

Sharon  3/25/98  I also have a workaholic pastor/husband.  Our solution has
been to purchase a used RV/camper.  Unless there is an emergency or crisis, I
now know that we will pile in the camper Friday after school and be gone until
late Saturday afternoon.  It is the only way to guarantee 24 hours off a week. 
It keeps me sane knowing that regardless of everything else that is going on,
we will have that time together as a family.  We drive two old cars in order to
have this camper and use it 9 to 10 months of the year.  Sometimes we just
drive to a relative's house and "camp out" in their yard or driveway.  Other
times we hang out in a mall or store parking lot (usually, if you ask
permission to spend the night, they will agree) or local/county/state park. 
And then, when finances permit, we will go to a campground with a pool,
playground, etc.  We have found that what really matters is that we are away
from the parsonage, church, phone, etc. and it has proved to be a real
blessing!

Carol  5/25/98  The "leftovers" you spoke of come from a huge effort on your
husband's part to maintain his life, his church, his wife, and children.  Be
sure not to belittle these efforts.  Don't call them leftovers.  It is your
husband taking the time he could use to take a nap or read the paper, and
instead spend it with you and the kids.  You (all of us) are an oasis in a
desert of busy schedules that comes with being a pastor.  Be there when he
needs you.  Don't make him think he has missed the boat.  Love him and his
profession unconditionally.

Victory  2/23/02  If your husband seems to be spending more time with the
church than with you, I would suggest that you communicate to him your feelings
about this in a loving,non-threatening way.  It always help to pray before
appraoching him. Ask God to give you fun ways to spend time together.ie.,
preparing his favorite meal,scheduling a get-together with another couple,etc.
In addition share with God in prayer your feelings, your anger, your pain,your
resentment toward the church, because if we are not careful we will become
angry at those who in our eyes are coming between us and our husbands. I can
identify with you and I feel your pain. Be assurred God is ably to do exceeding
abundantly above that that we ask or think.  I will be praying for you and
countless others who have, or who are experiencing the same thing. Love you!!
Back to Top
    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Margo  10/30/97  What do you all do when your husband is unfairly attacked
verbally by people in the church?  Is there ever a time when it is appropriate
to say something to someone who has really hurt your husband?  Or should I just
encourage my husband as best as possible and stay out of it?  I get really
angry when I see that he is hurt by some very blatant attacks.  How do I keep
it from affecting our home life?  (i.e. my husband is angry at someone in the
church, and he takes it out on us at home?)  Any ideas?

Carol  5/25/98  You should protect your husband only after he has protected
himself.  Don't take his place, but rather support his place.  Voice your
opinion when appropriated, even if it is contrary to certain church members. 
Make your position known.  The "real" church members will be depending on you
to do so.  Your husband (your pastor) should do the same for you.  He should
allow you to take care of yourself, but be willing to step in and join with you
in the face of conflict.

Back to Top
    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Rock Dove Publications  10/29/97  We have received a request for a list of
books and materials of help to pastor's wives.  What have you found helpful? 
Thanks.

Ronnelle  11/21/97 Help! My Husband Has Two Wives by Debra Morton (wife of
Bishop Paul Morton); Today's Minister's Wives by Weptonomah Carter (wife of
Pastor Harold Carter); and Sick and Tired of Being a Minister's Wife by Shirley
Wise (wife of Pastor C. Dexter Wise).

Lisa  1/1/98  There's a Snake in My Garden, by Jill Briscoe.  This book was
given to me to read by a friend many years ago, before I became a "pastor's
wife."  I loved this book then and waited for years to finally get my own copy!
  Mrs. Briscoe really shares openly and honestly regarding her own struggles as
a pastor's wife. . .and uses humor so well!  This book is most encouraging,
challenging, and thought-provoking!  A "must-read" for every future and present
"pastor's wife!",

Debby  3/28/98  Books I have read and enjoyed are: Heart to Heart with Pastor's
Wives by Lynne Dugan.  In this book twelve women share the wisdom whey have
gained as partners in ministry.  Counsel for Pastor's Wives by Diane Langberg. 
Dr. Langberg is a psychologist who offers answers to fourteen questions from
pastor's wives.  The Guilt-Free Book for Pastor's Wives by Ruth Senter. 
Renewal on the Run by Jill Briscoe.  Then a book that isn't directed to
pastor's wives, but has great insight is How to Care for the Whole World and
Still Take Care of Yourself by Peg Rankin.  Hope you enjoy these.

Ema  5/13/98  Married to a Pastor's Wife by H.B. London, Jr. & Neil B. Wiseman
made a world of difference for me!  Prior to reading it, I felt really
frustrated trying to know where I could possible fit it.  And many times felt
that I just didn't fit in at all.  I married at age 39 for the first time,
became a wife as well as a PW all in an instant.  I also relocated from So.
California to Idaho 3 days after our wedding... big change for me!  I've needed
lots of help and still do.. but, I'll say, that book really was a blessing to
me, our home church, and I'm sure my husband - since my attitude received an
overhaul!  God Bless you!

Rock Dove Publications Please note that these books may be wonderful, but Rock
Dove Publications has not read them and can not therefore give a solid
recommendation.

A Pastor's Wife  1/13/98  I'm interested in books that deal with being a
"pastor's wife" and being yourself.  Creating a balance in the home-life and
the ministry.  Where could I find such books and articles.  Thanks.

RTS  3/25/98  I am interested in any material, books, psy. journal articles on
depression and pastors wives... any suggestions on where to look?  Thanks!

Back to Top
    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Sharon  11/2/97  Our congregation is growing dramatically and for this I am
very thankful.  However, I find myself overwhelmed by the needs of the people. 
With so many people and so many needs, it seems difficult to know where to
begin and where to end.  My husband and I certainly can't do it all.  Our
people are good and take care of each other but we are caught in that middle
ground where so many people still expect the pastor to be intimately involved
in every situation.  I know part of the problem is one of growth.  How have
others successfully made the transition from small to medium to large
congregations?  How did you adjust to the ever-changing role?

MoVal PW  2/13/97  Sharon, knowing when to meet a real need and when to say
"no" is the hardest part of a compassionate caring ministry, right?  In my 19
years in the ministry as Pastor's wife, Worship Leader, Choir Director,
Counselor, Associate Pastor, Friend and Need-Meeter.... the most helpful
resource that sent me to the Bible and inside of my own conflicts is the book
by Henry Cloud and John Townsend Boundaries.  This book gave me permission to
take care of myself, my children, my husband and the original calling by God as
our church grew.  Satan can use your fast growth as a way to create conflict
within the leadership and certainly the Pastor's home!  You cannot pastor a
large church with the same involvement level with individuals as a small church
-- you already know this! Choosing 3-5 women that you will invest your time in
developing, discipling and mentoring is modeling the way that Jesus expanded
his ministry.  Those who are not chosen by you to be in this group will be
hurt, angry, and possibly even vindictive.  That pretty much shows you where
they are in their "readiness" for this role -- they are showing their own
"neediness" over their "readiness" to love maturely and learn to lovingly
disciple others.  Being close to the Pastor's wife or the Pastor himself is a
badge of honor or importance that many people need.  That is why they go to a
smaller church.  Often, they have no idea that they are fighting the very thing
that they say they are praying for -- the growth of your church, adding to
God's Kingdom!  They are content to see it grow as long as they don't see
themselves "losing their position" of importance in the circle surrounding the
Pastor's home.  Watching this happen, and losing close friends to the growing
of a successful ministry is very painful.  Changes That Heal and Boundaries
have helped us tremendously -- and I regret that I did not realize what was
happening to myself and my friends until too late to save some very precious
relationships.  I miss these women and have grieved for our friendship -- but
now know that God has a better plan for healthier relationships!

Back to Top
    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Mika  11/3/97  I am a 25 years old pastor's wife.  My husband is also 25 and
has been pastoring for about 6 months.  Being a pastor's wife can be very
lonely.  How do other pastor's wives deal with the loneliness of our roles? 
You can't get too close with members of the fellowship and you can't say too
much to members of the fellowship,etc., etc.  Does this artform just come over
time?  And does a pastor's wife learn not to take on the burdens of her
husband's anguish and pain, when the only thing you can do is PRAY?

Kay  1/7/98  Hi, Mika.  I've been a pastor's wife for eight years and before
that was co-founder with my husband in a crisis center.  When I first became a
pastor's wife, I felt as if I was being watched and I had a role to fill.  That
is a lonely place to be.  I finally realized that if others are responding to
me negatively, I need to go to God with it and allow Him to talk to them.  It
allowed me to be myself, mistakes and all.  I've been through many situations
where I spoke up and then left the rest to the Lord.  (Imperfect children, my
role, whose house is the parsonage, just to name a few.)  I often feared
reactions to things that never came, like when my teenage son came home with a
mohawk late Saturday evening.  Through education, my church family sees me as
just one of the girls.  I am able to share my faults and failures with them
without fear.  Just pray and be yourself.  Don't be afraid to open up. 
Sometimes reactions to us are caused by others feeling we must be perfect. 
After all, God called our husbands to be pastors.  If that's what it took,
there would be no pastors!!!

Bea Kay  1/13/98  I have been a pastor's wife for fifteen years.  I worked
part-time for many of those years, full-time for the past year-and-a-half.  I
have found that the friendships I established at work made a huge difference in
how lonely I felt in the community in which my husband served.  I have always
worked in a community apart from where he ministered.  This too helped me rise
above the turmoil going on in the church: I didn't get so wrapped up in it as I
did when the church was our only source of support, our only social outlet, the
only thing we had to talk about.  We have been through MANY trials in the
pastorate.  Currently, my husband is pastoring part-time (if there is such a
thing!) and I am providing the majority of financial support for our family. 
(We have four children.)  It is a very different scenario than I ever dreamed
of, but I have learned that sometimes God calls us to do the unusual, the
unexpected, the very thing that we may have been skeptical of others doing; all
to accomplish His will for us, and to produce growth.

SewBren  11/8/97  Mika -- I have been a pastor's wife for 16 years.  We have
always pastored small country churches.  When we were married I had no clue
that God would call my husband to the ministry of preaching.  On top of
preaching he is also a supervisor at a large company.  What God has taught me
through the years is that I am my husband's wife.  This comes first and
foremost before the pastor's wife!  We share in the ministry together but also
I know that God called my husband to be the leader and I am the helpmate.  I
have enough burdens of my own, raising the family and ministering as God would
have me.  I used to try to help solve all the problems of the church until we
realized that it was not necessary for me to know all the troubles of the
church.  That is why God created Deacons and Leaders of the church.  We have an
agreement that I can put family times on the calendar -- that way he can
honestly say that he has another appointment at that time.  This does not
always work, but it sure helps.  Also, try kidnapping your husband sometime for
an overnight stay somewhere.  Tell the other men in charge of the church that
your husband needs a break and they generally will understand.  Remember -- you
are his wife first, then the pastor's wife!

Brenda  11/26/97  SewBren: I read your response and am in a similar situation. 
My husband of 24 years has decided to leave his teaching job at a community
college and go to seminary.  We have two children, 14 and 8.  Both boys.  I'll
have to go to work fulltime, which doesn't bother me.  I haven't worked
fulltime since my 14 year-old was born.  Any suggestions for getting us all
through seminary?  Don't know which area of ministry he'll go into, but he'll
have to pastor a church for 3 years before he can branch out into specialty
areas.  We're 45.  Going to be quite a change.  Ignorance is bliss I guess. 
I'm both excited and nervous.  Don't know what kind of role I'll take as a
pastor's wife, but I know I'm a wife first and a mother.  I want to be a strong
support system for my husband, but he's the one who has been called.  Does that
make sense?  I enjoy the church and am very proud of him, but like I said, I'm
a little nervous about being in a "fish bowl" when he's a pastor.  Is that a
fair way to put it?  Will look forward to your response.

Kathy  2/6/98  Dear Mika, I know how you feel.  I couldn't say that a few
months ago.  I thought that there was something wrong with me.  I wondered why
God would put this obstacle in my life.  That is how I looked at it.  Not as a
blessing, but an obstacle.  My husband is still in seminary, works full-time,
and is also the associate pastor and the youth pastor at our church.  I felt as
if I was playing tug of war.  I was at one end, God at the other end, and my
husband in the middle.   I felt if I dare ask him to do something for me or
take time JUST FOR ME, then I was asking him to take time away from God's
work.  I felt that I was going to be responsible for someone not becoming a
Christian, because I was taking him away from doing God's work.  What kind of
Christian would do that?  That is the way I felt then.  Now, I realize that I
have to tell him when he is forgetting about me and my daughter.  My daughter
had even made the remark that it seemed to her that Daddy was busy worrying
about everyone else's kid but his own.  That really hurt.  It won't be easy to
tell him, because we all feel that we should not say anything demeaning to our
husbands, we all know that he gets enough of that from other people.  But it is
very important to communicate.  I don't mean a one-sided conversation either. 
Ask him to set down with you and listen to you and your feelings.  You don't
want him to tell you how you can fix your problems.  You want him to realize
that he is not making time for you.  Then love you SO much that he will make
the decision to make you the second in his list of priorities.  God being
first, of course.  I have also found out that if you can help him in his
ministry, it will become our ministry instead of his ministry.  I still have to
tell my husband when he is forgetting about me, and it still upsets him when I
do, but the one thing I forgot to do for a long time was to turn it over to
God.  I kept sending up flags, hints, and signals to my husband.  And when he
didn't see them it just made me more mad.  It kept reinforcing that feeling
that he wasn't interested in me any more.  But the real truth is that I was
expecting him to be able to read my mind.  He couldn't do that.  No one can.  I
was expecting him to do something that no person in the world can do.  But when
I realized that by talking to God and telling him my problems, I was talking to
the one person that could do something about it.  I'm sorry if it seems that I
am babbling, but I don't want any wife to feel that there is something wrong
with her because she doesn't feel the same desire that her husband does about
his ministry.  God has different jobs for all of us.  You have to ask God to
show you what yours is and then ask HIM to show it to your husband and let your
husband realize that yours is just as important as his.  Don't give up.  God
won't give up on you.  I know you may feel as though you didn't ask to become a
minister's wife, but God would not, and did not, call just your husband into
this ministry.  He called both of you.

Debby  3/28/98  Dear Brenda and SewBren, you can do this!!!!!!  After seventeen
years in law enforcement my husband, at the age of forty-one, decided to leave
his job and go to seminary full-time.  It meant some changes for me and our two
kids.  My son was ten and my daughter was eight.  I went back to work full-time
and they got used to daddy having to study ALOT!!!  But we all got through it
and our faith grew by leaps and bounds.  Some months we just didn't know where
the money was coming from and even today we still don't know how we made it. 
But God was faithful and He provided.  We found that if my husband used up
until dinnner and after 9:00pm to have his classes and study, the kids seemed
happy.  That gave us dinner and until 9:00pm to be with dad.  And on those days
that he needed more time than that, they were happy to help out and give up
their time.  They felt like they were part of his studying then.  Also I found
that getting involved with the spouse's group at his school helped me.  If
there isn't one where your husband is going, at least try to get to know some
of the wives of the other students.  No one will understand what you are
dealing with or feeling better than them.  It makes for great prayer support. 
Also, in trying to encourage them, I found that I was helping my own attitude. 
It won't be easy to feel like you fit in at first because most of them will be
a lot younger, but soon it doesn't seem to matter.  We are now doing a new
church start in a town about three hours away from what we called home for many
years.  It's hard work, but Steve loves what he is doing and God has gifted
him.  We have about sixty-five people worshipping on Sundays now.  I believe
because I was married to him before the ministry and had time to find out who I
am and who we are as a couple it has been easier not to fall into the trap of
trying to meet everyone's expectations.  So far in four years of ministry and
two churches I haven't had the "fish bowl" feeling.  I feel like my call is to
Steve and my kids, and I work hard at making their lives as "normal" as
possible.  They are both in high school now and both seem happy with the
changes we have had to make.  I will be praying for your family, but fully
believe you will look back on this time with fond memories.  May God go with
you.

Angie  7/24/98  I, too, am 25 and have been put into the role of Pastor's wife
since the moment I said my vows to my husband.  I have several close friends,
all who live very far away.  Our church is rural and has a congregation of
30-40 members.  The thing that bothers me is that there is NO ONE my age here. 
I am the youngest woman in the congregation and sometimes feel very left out
and very young.  I am sure
that the ladies here do not mean to make me feel this way, it's my fault,
however, I find now that I stick very much to myself when not in a church
setting.  Meaning, I stay at home much of the time and entertain myself.  I
knew that this calling on my life would be tough, but I never imagined all that
went with it.  I have only been married a year and a month.  My husband is also
in seminary for one more year and we travel to the church on the weekends
during the school year which means we are busy most of the time.  I would love
to have someone to talk to on the internet, via e-mail if anyone wants to talk
with me.  This computer is my link to the outside world.  It's so nice to know
that there is a place like this to interact!

Ema  7/30/98 I'm 43 and I also became a Pastor's wife the moment our vows were
sealed!  How funny, you're young and I seem to be 'lost' in the ages thing in
our congregation! I was 39 then.  Most of our couples are in their 20's-early
30's and the others are in their 50's-60's!  I'm the only woman in her 40's.
Can you imagine?  And do I get lonely sometimes for some 'mature' chit chat!
Mature, meaning that it seems that I feel like I'm constantly teaching the
younger ladies & moms about life and the Lord.  Sometimes I feel like the
wicked witch of the South - when correcting is necessary.. gee, I wish the
Pastor's wife would take care of these things! I guess I'm she, huh!  I know
what you mean about entertaining yourself, too. mmm hhmm..  You can E-mail me
if you'd like: EmaBdot@aol.com  I have some links I know you'll love.

Angie  8/6/98  The Lord is so good to all of us!  After I wrote here the first
time I was reunited with a friend I worked with at summer camp.  Because she
was also heading down the aisle to marry a Pastor, we vowed to one another that
we would keep in contact to be a support for one another.  After almost 2
years I found her and we have been communicating regularly by email.  I am
still lonely for some close friends, but she has been a blessing to me.  I
wonder if you all might think of her in your prayers.  I know if she had the
internet she would get on here herself and ask a zillion questions about this
calling we all have in common.  Anyway, she, her husband, and their new little
baby boy(2mths) have just moved to a new church.  It's a big adjustment for
them all, especially since they also have a new little boy.  She is having a
very strange problem with a lady in the church who will drop in unexpectantly
and take over her house.  She takes the baby from my friend and continues to go
on about how this little boy should have a new mama, how she is his Nanna, and
so on.  This is upsetting for my friend and she wonders what in the world she
can say to this lady to get her to stop being this way.  Any ideas??

Lisa  8/12/98  If your friend is not careful this woman will try to take over
more than her baby!   She needs to nicely, but firmly tell this woman that God
gave her and her husband to child too raise and that
her opinions are welcome but not necessary going to be used each time.  She
needs to be firm, but loving and kind.

Lisa  9/13/98  I read your previous entry and know exactly how you were
feeling.  I still feel that way sometimes.  I am 27 years old and have been a
pastor's wife since we got married 1 year and 1 month ago.  Most of the people
in our church are older than me.  The ladies try to be sweet to me but I need
friends closer to my age too.  I have one good friend but she is a church
member.  I feel like I can't get too close to her because I might say too much
or something.  My husband warns me not to say this or that to her.  My close
friends live about 800 miles away.  I would love to have someone to E-mail to
who can understand the obvious frustrations that accompany being a PW.

Angie  9/21/98  Lisa....Things are the same with me as usual.  Although I am
not sure if we will be staying at this church for a whole lot longer.  In the
Spring, my husband graduates from seminary and we will likely be called to
another church.  The one we are at now is more like a "student" ministry, so
they say.  I am still lonely though.  It's hard being there without people my
own age.  The ladies are very sweet, but as you said, it's nice to talk with
someone who is within a few years of your age.  I also find
that because I am the youngest, that I am looked to do everything!!!  "Angie is
young, she can lead singing,,,,they are young, let them deal with the
youth...they are young, let them take care of the parsonage and all the yard
work.."  (The yard work thing is a whole other story!)  Anyway, I am sure that
all this will pass, as everything has a habit of doing...

Joey-Ann  4/2/02  I thought it was bad dating a pastor (because the
congregation could decide not to keep you!), but found many more struggles
being the wife!  The phrase "Great Expectations" kept coming to mind...  I
married at 22 (now 26) and hit the ground running (they got ahold of us on our
honeymoon!!!).  I often felt VERY alone because there was no one my age that I
could relate to.  I had a huge identity crisis (anyone with me here?).  I felt
like I had to be some great heroine.  I grew up in CA and not in church so when
I became the PW in a small town in KY, I was in a shock of many kinds... 
People ask me what it is like being a pastor's wife and I had no idea what they
meant!  "Who? What?"  To me, I thought we weren't any more special then a
"carpenter's wife" or a "plumber's wife" - and we aren't!  We just have a heart
big enough to be a big part of the church staff that volunteers her all to help
the cause.  I believe that many PW's would give just as much if she were just a
"layman."  But our call is to serve our husbands who have special needs. I
struggled also with not knowing where I fit in to his schedule.  As a single
pastor, he had plenty of time to devote to everyone.  This was hard for him to
adjust and for the people to adjust when we got married! We are both learning
to utilize the gifts of the people in the church.  We ask (poke and prod...)
people to help us out for even the littlest things like changing light bulbs. 
Most people want to feel important, but don't know how they can help.  These
little things create more time for us too!  I also spent a lot of time with
teens because we could relate.  At first I thought they would think I was
acting like a child (they did), but God is awesome!  That time spent with those
kids helped them by having a consistent role model and someone to talk to.  Now
the kids are much more involved in church.  The adults are seeing that fruit
and see my "youth" as an asset to reach the next generation.  I am still very
silly most times (it's more fun!) and am naive to being a Pastor's wife (what
DOES the mean anyway???).  But use your resouces, the older are more than
pushy, uh, willing to help you learn.  I learn a lot and am very thankful for
them (don't forget to tell them this!)!  They can seem harsh and judgemental at
times, but they are able to give you a gift and they enjoy it.  Take criticism
lightly and be yourself.  They didn't seem to like "myself" at first but if you
truly love like Christ, that always shines through and warms their hearts. 
They still rolled their eyes when I joined the puppet team or had a slumber
party for the teen girls, but they are loving every bit of it!  Keep your hear
pure for God and let him handle the rest!  Hang out with the teens or go out
and find some!  I may not have that "best friend bond" right now, but God will
provide that in due time and he has blessed me with a wide variety of friends
(better than all those non-Christians at work!). Don't let the devil tell you
there is no one to relate too because you are young or different.  No one is
like you and that is how HE wanted it!  Praise God for that and enjoy the
diversity He is offering you to experience! In the mean time, I am just
enjoying being the "baby PW"! You get lots of help with hosting families and
dinners (and clean up!). Write me!  I need support too!  This is a great page!

Back to Top
    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Marcia  11/20/97  My husband and I are in limbo while we wait for a pastorate. 
We have stayed at his parents and are now at mine.  We await our visas for the
States as we are in Canada.  Please pray for us.  Thanks!

Marcia  3/22/98  As above stated, my husband and I are waiting for a position
in a church.  We have been accepted into two churches.  The first one, last
summer we said no to for various reasons and the second was in the States (we
live in Canada) and we waited for the visas for what seemed like an eternity. 
The church and we, as a couple, decided that we waited long enough and we have
gone our separate ways.  We are again waiting to find a church, candidate,
etc...  It sometimes feels that we have made wrong decisions or have just not
been wise in the decisions that we have made.  At the time, we felt peace and
that we were making the best decisions that we could.  I guess my question is:
when do you know what is the right church and decision to make on where to
candidate and where to minister?  This has been a very confusing time for us
and we are so scared of making another "wrong" decision.  The last three years
have been very difficult in the way that we have had 4 miscarriages and lost a
son shortly after delivery and that was in the 2-1/2 years that we were in our
first church as Youth Pastor.  If anyone can lend us their wisdom, we would
appreciate it.  God Bless.

Pat  3/25/98  I read your entry with much concern several times, thinking
someone would have responded to you by now.  As I read it again this morning, I
felt compelled to respond so I prayed for Him to give me the words to say. 
First I would like to convey my sympathy for your losses.  I have never
suffered a miscarriage or the loss of a child after birth so I cannot say I
know how you feel, but I do know that every conception is precious to our
Father and He knows how to comfort and heal the brokenhearted.  May I ask this
question?  Have you specifically prayed and asked "Lord, would YOU please find
the church that YOU want us to pastor and open the door for us to begin the
work?"  If you've done that and you are still waiting, then He must have a good
reason for the delay.  If you haven't and you are still trying to find the
church yourself, then perhaps the Lord is waiting for you to ask HIM to find
the right church.  I don't know all the circumstances surrounding your search,
but I can tell you from experience that when we trust our own decision making
abilities, we usually end up regretting it and wondering where we went wrong. 
More often than not, when we trace our steps backwards, we find that somewhere
along the line we neglected to specifically ask our Father what to do.  The
Bible tells us that "....he that lacks wisdom, let him ask God..." Perhaps it's
time to go back before the Throne and ask Him for specific and clear direction,
and then wait.  He is sure to respond in His time and His way.  I will be
praying for you, dear.

Back to Top
    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Working Pastor's Wife  1/3/98  We have pastored three churches in different
cities of different sizes.  Our current church where we have been for three
years is in a city outside Toronto.  We love the church, but find that due to
the cost of housing, etc., I must work full-time.  I am grateful that God has
provided me with a good job, but I am mourning the loss of time to minister and
be involved with the church.  A mother of two kids (12 and 9), I am busy after
work and week-ends.  I would love to quit work, but we tried the first two
years we were here for me to be home and we ended up in a serious financial
crunch.  We live modestly, but have just never accumulated enough assets to
afford our current cost of living.
      A big part of me would like to stay home on faith. . . but another part
of me believes God knows my heart and could provide if He wanted me at home.  I
am the only believer in my workplace and I believe God may want me to get
ouside of my comfort zone and serve as His voice at work.  Any comments?

Kay  1/7/98  Dear Working Pastor's Wife: I was in exactly your situation a few
years ago.  Since I was saved twenty years ago, I had worked fulltime for the
Lord.  The last eight years as a pastor's wife.  About six years ago, I decided
to go to work.  I worked for two-and-a-half years in a professional job. 
Unfortunately, the negative outweighed the positive.  We had more money, but my
heart was still in ministry and so I tried to do both jobs.  I was too tired to
really take care of my husband.  My seven children are grown, but there was no
time for family things.  I began to dread Sunday Mornings, Bible study nights,
etc.  I finally had to step out in faith, cut back, and pray.  I looked at the
overall picture and found we went up a tax bracket and I wasn't near as happy
and content.  I quit.  God supplied our needs and recently, through an
inheritance, I will not have to work again.  Needs were met through many
avenues.  (I'll share that another time.)  My advice is to pray that God will
open doors for extra money in other ways besides a 9-5 job.  As he opens doors,
step out in faith.  I'll pray for you.  Kay

Working Pastor's Wife  1/11/98  Kay, thanks for your encouragement.  Just
knowing I am not alone helps.  My husband and I are going to give it a
six-month trial and then assess how our life, home, marriage, etc. has been
impacted.  In the meantime, I just need to wait on the Lord for my strength and
comfort.  I know that He has provided this job and I am going to see where He
is working in the company and join Him in it.  Perhaps someone needs to hear
the Gospel?

Carol  5/25/98  Hang in there!  I work fulltime and so does my husband.  We
have a child and a church with 75 members.  The time I have with him is usually
in church.  Sometimes, I peek into the office at home (converted garage) and
take comfort in seeing him busily typing on the computer.  He is building
character and we all benefit from that.  Also, I am a medical transcriptionist
which allows me to work at home sometimes and to be paid on production, not
just hours.  My salary is (pretty much) what I make it.  Also, PRAY for more
time to spend productively.

Back to Top

newbeginner  1/6/98  My husband is starting a ministry.  I am so afraid.  I
really don't want to leave my church that I am in.  I want my family to stay
together.  We have two children.  Any words of advise?

Been There, Done That!!!  1/9/98  When we have a call of God on our lives, we
have to trust God for the leading He will give in our lives.  The worst part is
waiting for the answer to His call.  When my husband and I started in the
ministry 26 years ago, we had no idea where He would lead us.  Now, as we look
back, it has all been exciting (not always the way we would have chosen, but
always interesting).  As to leaving a church you have always been a part of,
trust me, they will never forget to pray for you.  That is the wonderful thing
about the family of God.
    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Name (if you want to remain anonymous, simply put a pen name)
[                                                                                          ]

E-Mail address
[                                                            ]
Ideas, Questions, or Responses (if response, please indicate to which entry you
are responding)
[                                                                                                    ]
[                                                                                                    ]
[                                                                                                    ]
[                                                                                                    ]
[                                                                                                    ]
[                                                                                                    ]
[                                                                                                    ]
[                                                                                                    ]

[SUBMIT][START OVER!]
               "Copy Me!" Bible Quizzes - $19.95 [btn_cart_S] *
                 Hunting and the Bible - $12.95 [btn_cart_S] *
               Devotions for Dog Lovers - $12.95 [btn_cart_S] *
           Devotions for Hunters and Anglers - $14.95 [btn_cart_S] *
              Devotions for Bird Hunters - $12.95 [btn_cart_S] *
           Raccoon Hunting Basics and Beyond - $14.95 [btn_cart_S] *
             Raccoon Hunting Questions Tape - $9.95 [btn_cart_S] *
               Raccoon Hunting Gift Pack - $21.95 [btn_cart_S] *
Dominion over Wildlife - $25.95 PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                    Messianic Psalms - $5.95 [btn_cart_S] *
            100 Bird Hunter's Prayer Cards - $14.95 [btn_cart_S] *
               100 Prodigal Pooch Tracts - $8.95 [btn_cart_S] *
  Hunting Arguments - $14.95 PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
                 100 Rail Rider Tracts - $8.95 [btn_cart_S] *
 

 

 

Shipping is $5.00—for all order sizes!!

 

Our shopping cart uses PayPal!!

                                  PO Box 203
                             Silver Lake, MN 55381

 

Call us toll-free!

1-888-HIS-DOVE

1-888-447-3683

 

Questions?

questions@rockdove.com

                                [btn_viewca] *
Copyright © 2008 Rock Dove Publications. All Rights Reserved.

