 

fcaministers.com

Fellowship of Christian Assemblies
Menu Skip to content

  • Home
  • About Us
      □ Who We Are
      □ Our History
      □ Leadership
          ☆ Canada
          ☆ USA
      □ What We Believe
      □ Why FCA?
  • Connect
      □ Find a Church
      □ Regional Connections
      □ National Conventions
          ☆ USA
          ☆ Canada
      □ Join the FCA
          ☆ Canada
          ☆ USA
  • Opportunities
      □ Ministry Opportunities
      □ Minister Resumes
      □ Upload Resumes & Opportunities
  • Resources
      □ Church & Ministry
      □ Books & Blogs
      □ Canada
      □ USA
  • Blog
      □ Home
      □ Leadership
      □ Ministry
      □ Missions
      □ News
  • Contact
      □ Contact USA
      □ Contact Canada
      □ Share Your News

 

Are you connected?
Get connected & let’s advance

God’s Kingdom together!

Welcome!

The Fellowship of Christian Assemblies is a family of ministers and ministries
connecting to advance God’s Kingdom by the power of the Holy Spirit through the
local church. The updates, articles, and resources on this website are meant to
help equip and empower ministers to advance God’s Kingdom in leadership,
ministry, and missions.

If you’re not part of the FCA we encourage you to find out more about us here
and leave us a comment or send us a message. We would love to connect with you
to advance God’s Kingdom together!

BLOG: Connecting Leadership + Ministry + Missions

StephenLush Stephen Lush Now With The Lord January 9, 2016

It is with great sadness that we announce that Pastor Stephen Lush passed away
on December 30th. He had been an ordained minister with the FCA since Jan 1996.
He pastored Temple of Prayer and Praise in Napanee, ON.  He had a wonderful
heart for missions and had recently returned from a trip with Ministry …

  • News

Playland_bubble-300x225 Ideas That Work January 7, 2016

By Rich Doebler Our ministry should be anointed—empowered by the Spirit. I
think ministry should also be fun. Despite the inevitable hard work, sacrifice,
and spiritual warfare, I think ministry should be flavored with activities or
programs that appeal to our unchurched neighbors. One very effective
communicator advocated this when he wrote, “Be wise in the …

  • Ministry

worldhand Beyond Accomplishments December 30, 2015

By Tom Yerman Human beings have the potential and ability to accomplish great
things, but it is God who gives Success. We all strive for that gratification
and reward that comes from an outstanding accomplishment. And there’s nothing
wrong with that, but it’s temporary. It’s difficult to imagine that whatever
“we have accomplished” in our …

  • Ministry

LEADERSHIP

1794544_10152532828065829_8138159133674221605_n All the King’s Men
Horse Horse Talk

MINISTRY

Playland_bubble-300x225 Ideas That Work
worldhand Beyond Accomplishments

MISSIONS

sunrise-in-savanna Why We Aren’t Reaching The Unreached
Partial Completion Engaging Youth in Missions
© 2001-2015, Fellowship of Christian Assemblies, All rights reserved.
