Welcome to the Knox Orthodox Presbyterian Church website!
                                                                          Enter

My name is Tom Martin, and I'm the pastor of Knox OPC. On behalf of our
congregation, I invite you to explore this website. Here you'll get to meet us
and find out who we are, what we believe, and what we do as a local
congregation of Jesus' church in the metropolitan DC area.

[small_knox_front] Let me summarize our mission in this way. In Ephesians 3:8,
the apostle Paul expresses his amazement and delight because God has given a
sinful person like him the task of declaring what he refers to as the
"unsearchable riches of Christ." At Knox, we share that amazement and delight
at Jesus' unsearchable riches. Here's why --

  • Because of the truth of the Gospel. We share the commitment of Christians
    through the ages to the truths of the Gospel of salvation by grace through
    faith, a message that centers on the Person and work of Jesus as He is made
    known to us through the Bible by the Holy Spirit. In a confused world, we
    hear God speak with infallible authority in the Bible.
  • Because of the riches of Christ. We are searching the Scriptures in order
    to discover and understand the treasure trove of truth and blessing that is
    the Christian's inheritance through Jesus. At Knox we are learning together
    and helping each other understand and apply God's word to the joys and
    challenges of our life circumstances.
  • Because of our fellowship in Jesus. At Knox God is building a community of
    people who have experienced His love in Jesus and who are learning how to
    love and serve each other for Jesus' sake. This fellowship is a glorious
    and vital reality, and an oasis in our lonely and fractured society.
  • Because of our praise for God. Our amazement and delight at what God has
    done leads us to place an emphasis on joyful and reverent worship. Worship
    at Knox is traditional in style and centers on the praiseworthiness of God
    and His redeeming work through the atoning death and triumphant
    resurrection of Jesus.

I hope that you will take time to explore this website to find more information
that will flesh out this brief introduction. You will see that we are committed
to the inspiration and infallibility of the Bible as the very word of God. As a
member of the Reformed family of churches, we accept the Westminster Confession
of Faith and the Westminster Larger & Shorter Catechisms as a reliable (though
not inspired) summary of what the Bible teaches.

[knoxinterior] In the end, however, the best way to get to know us will be for
you to visit with us, and I invite you to do just that. This is a warm and
welcoming congregation that prays for visitors, so we will not only make you
welcome, we will see your visit to us as a part of God's answer to our prayers!

Yours in the service of the Lord Jesus,

Tom Martin, pastor.
                                                                          Enter
