                  *
Lutherans Online                                      *
                  *                                   Contact Us  |  Help  |  
                                                      Home 
    • Websites                                        *
        □ Search Sites                                [search_top]
●       □ Site Directory                              [Search       ]       [5]
    • Hosted websites will be retired in early 2016.  [btn_go]
      Read more.

*

  Sponsored by Thrivent      Please note:
        Financial            We are currently experiencing problems with our
                             Lutherans Online website processing. Please try
[Thrivent Financial     ]    again later. If you continue to experience
                             problems, please contact the Lutherans Online Help
                             Desk for assistance.
                             
                             Please note:
                             We are currently experiencing problems with our
                             Lutherans Online website processing. Please try
                             again later. If you continue to experience
                             problems, please contact the Lutherans Online Help
                             Desk for assistance.
                             
                             Please note:
                             We are currently experiencing problems with our
                             Lutherans Online website processing. Please try
                             again later. If you continue to experience
                             problems, please contact the Lutherans Online Help
                             Desk for assistance.
                             Website hosting being retired

                             In April, Thrivent Financial began communicating
                             about its intention to retire Lutheransonline. In
                             October, notices were sent to web administrators
                             indicating that hosted websites would be
                             discontinued by the end of the year. To assist
                             those remaining websites make a transition to a
                             new webhost provider, we are extending this date
                             to January 31, 2016.

                             We know that your website may be an important part
                             of how your organization connects with the wider
                             community (or how you connect with family and
                             friends), so we want to ensure that this change
                             will have minimal impact to your organization (or
                             to you) and its web presence. If you would like to
                             continue to maintain a web presence, you will need
                             to transfer your website to a new web hosting
                             services.

                             You are free to find a web host of your choosing,
                             or you can take advantage of a special offer
                           * Thrivent has arranged with the web hosting
                             provider Finalweb to transfer existing websites
                             over to this new provider. In transferring to
                             Finalweb, you receive the following benefits:

                               • Your own unique web address (e.g.,
                                 www.abidinghoperichmond.com).
                               • The transfer of your web content to your new
                                 website by Finalweb (less work for you).
                               • A fresh, new website look to appeal to your
                                 site visitors.
                               • Access to additional web services to build
                                 upon your online presence.

                             We have negotiated with Finalweb to offer you a
                             reduced cost for their web hosting services of $21
                             a month. For all congregations/organizations/
                             individuals signing up with Finalweb, Thrivent
                             will be offering a $250 contribution towards the
                             cost of your first year of service. To take
                             advantage of this opportunity, you will need to
                             establish a contract with Finalweb. You can sign
                             up with Finalweb by going to www.finalweb.com/
                             thrivent. Please make sure to review Finalweb s
                             policies and procedures in light of the website
                             content and services that you require. Finalweb s
                             services may not be appropriate for your website
                             content and the security controls they provide.
                             Please remember this is a totally optional
                             service: if you prefer to move your website to
                             another hosting service, or would like to
                             discontinue your website, you are free to do so.

                             Whether you take advantage of the offer through
                             Finalweb or you select your own web hosting
                             provider, you will want to update your website s
                             URL with your users and on any sites that may
                             direct to your webpage (e.g., denominational
                             church listings).

                             Thank you for your continued support and
                             partnership. We invite you to learn more about
                             Thrivent and connect with other Christians by
                             going to Thrivent.com. See more information about
                             this change.

● ●
  Copyright Policy  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Directory
● ●
  [logoblk163]    Contact                                        
                  Lutherans
                  Online
                  866-201-1522

                                                                  
  Thrivent       Contact         Appleton        Minneapolis      
  Financial      Thrivent        Office:         Office:
                 Financial       4321 N. Ballard 625 Fourth
                 800-THRIVENT    Road            Avenue S.
                 (800-847-4836)  Appleton, WI    Minneapolis, MN
                                 54919-0001 USA  55415-1624 USA
                                                                  
  Insurance products issued or offered by Thrivent Financial, the marketing
  name for Thrivent Financial for Lutherans, Appleton, WI. Not all products are
  available in all states. Products issued by Thrivent Financial are available
  to applicants who meet membership, insurability, U.S. citizenship and
  residency requirements. Securities and investment advisory services are
  offered through Thrivent Investment Management Inc., 625 Fourth Ave. S.,
  Minneapolis, MN 55415, a FINRA and SIPC member and a wholly owned subsidiary
  of Thrivent. Thrivent Financial representatives are registered
  representatives of Thrivent Investment Management Inc. They are also licensed
  insurance agents/producers of Thrivent. Fee-based investment advisory
  services are available through qualified investment advisor representatives
  only.
   
  Trust and investment management accounts and services offered by Thrivent
  Trust Company are not insured by the FDIC or any other federal government
  agency, are not deposits or other obligations of, nor guaranteed by Thrivent
  Trust Company or its affiliates, and are subject to investment risk,
  including possible loss of the principal amount invested.
   
*
