  • Home
  • About CMRI
      □ Introduction
      □ History
      □ Why the Sedevacantist Position?
      □ Marian Spirit
      □ Fatima Apostolate
  • Priests and Religious
      □ Superior General
      □ CMRI Priests
      □ CMRI Brothers
      □ CMRI Sisters
      □ Lay Associates
  • Traditional Latin Mass Directory
      □ Mass Centers in U.S.A.
      □ Mass Centers Outside the U.S.A.
      □ Schools
      □ Seminaries
      □ Convents
  • Articles
      □ Sedevacantist Position
      □ The Traditional Catholic Faith
      □ Dogmatic Theology
      □ Moral Theology
      □ The Blessed Virgin
      □ The Mass and the Sacraments
      □ Baltimore Catechism
  • CMRI Publications
      □ The Reign of Mary Magazine
      □ Seminary Newsletter
      □ Minor Seminary Newsletter
      □ Sisters' Newsletter and Photos
      □ Traditional Catholic Books
  • Events
  • CMRI Links
  • Contact Us

 
RSS Feed               Make a
available              tax-deductible
                       donation    

CMRI: A Traditional Catholic Religious Congregation

The Religious Congregation of Mary Immaculate Queen (CMRI) is dedicated to the
preservation and spread of the traditional Catholic Faith. CMRI is responsible
for over 50 traditional Catholic churches and Mass centers both in the U.S. and
abroad, a number of schools staffed by religious, several publications, and a
comprehensive online Catholic store. Read more about how these traditional
Catholic priests, Brothers and Sisters live and spread the authentic Catholic
Faith and the Fatima Message...

Recent Events

Fatima        Fatima Conference 2015 Photo Gallery: The Triumph of Mary’s
Conference    Immaculate Heart (Oct. 7-11, 2015). CD recordings of all the
slideshow     lectures are available. A beautiful DVD photo slideshow with
              music of many highlights of this year’s Conference will also soon
              be available.


Current Editions of CMRI’s Publications

Reign of Mary    The Reign of Mary
#159 cover       CMRI’s quarterly magazine: (Subscribe)
                 Due to circumstances beyond our control, Issue No. 159 is
                 considerably late, but we want to assure our readers that you
                 will still receive four issues for each year’s subscription.
                 The lead article in this issue shows how “Pope” Francis is not
                 following in the footsteps of his namesake, the holy St.
                 Francis of Assisi. Along these same lines, Fr. Benedict Hughes
                 comments on how the shepherds of the Conciliar Church do
                 little to protect their sheep from the terrible moral dangers
                 of our day. In Part VI of the series on Bishop Moises Carmona
                 Rivera, Fr. Carmona receives notice of “excommunication,”
                 along with pleas from friends to embrace the changes of
                 Vatican II, both of which he answered with his usual
                 steadfastness. Other articles include a touching Christmas
                 story, thoughts on Mount St. Michael’s Centennial Year, and a
                 short biography of the life of Fr. Solanus Casey, OFM Cap., a
                 modern wonderworker who died in 1957 in Detroit, Michigan.
                 World Watch stories: Ireland’s RTE' television drops the daily
                 Angelus. Planned Parenthood “didn’t do anything wrong”
                 (selling body parts). Half of German priests rarely go to
                 confession; 42% don’t practice personal prayer. “Pope” allows
                 Lutheran woman to “decide for herself” whether or not to go to
                 Communion and grants Communion to the divorced and remarried.
                 Plaza named after Martin Luther in Rome. And more... For a
                 complete outline of articles, click here.


                 Adsum
Adsum photos     Mater Dei Seminary’s free monthly newsletter: (Subscribe)
                 December 2015: Photos of ordination of Rev. Fr. Robert
                 Letourneau to the ordination and of Frater Francis Crawford,
                 CMRI, to the subdiaconate. Moral Theology: Viaticum to a
                 Child; Permission to Use Confessional Knowledge.


The Sisters      Anima Mariae (Soul of Mary)
have a large     CMRI Sisters’ free quarterly newsletter: (Subscribe)
volume of        Our Winter 2015 issue of the Anima Mariae is finally on its
orders to        way! A beautiful poem by Wordworth fittingly opens our
fill during      newsletter during this time which might be called the season
Advent           of the Immaculate Conception. From November through February
                 we have a little string of pearls, feasts of Mary which
                 directly relate to this glorious prerogative of our Heavenly
                 Mother... Two pages of photos of events of the past three
                 months. A Convent Christmas Custom: the ceremony of the
                 Kissing of the Feet of the Infant Jesus. Novenas: Our Lady of
                 Prompt Succor (Jan. 15) and Our Lady of Lourdes (Feb. 11). Our
                 next issue: March.



                       Traditional Catholic Books and Religious Goods:
                       Browse through Mary Immaculate Queen Center, staffed by
Mary Immaculate        the CMRI Sisters, and see their comprehensive selection
Queen Traditional      of traditional Catholic books, pamphlets and calendars,
Catholic Books and     as well as Catholic music and DVD’s, rosaries,
Religious Articles     scapulars, crucifixes and much more. Be sure to sign up
                       at the bottom of MIQ’s home page for our free mailing
                       list so the Sisters can let you know about specials, new
                       items, etc.


Of Special Interest

Reclaiming a Hijacked Priesthood: Fr. Michael Oswalt speaks of his experiences
in a VII seminary Ordained in the modern Catholic Church in 2008, Fr. Michael
Oswalt soon came to see that not only were his orders invalid, but that his
Church was not truly the Catholic Church. He came to Mount St. Michael in
January of 2010 to prepare for ordination in the traditional Catholic rite, and
was ordained to the priesthood on June 29, 2011.
View Fr. Oswalt’s online interview (2009) His letter to the clergy of the
diocese of Rockford, a superb explanation of why the modern Church is not truly
the Catholic Church, was published in Issue No. 138 of The Reign of Mary and
may also be read at this link.
Also available: Feb. 2010 Talk at Mount St. Michael (CD)
“Reclaiming a Hijacked Priesthood: One Man’s Story” (CD)


━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
         Mount St. Michael                 Mater Dei Seminary                  St. Michael’s Convent
     8500 N. St. Michael’s Rd.            7745 Military Avenue               8502 N. St. Michael’s Rd.
         Spokane, WA 99217                  Omaha, NE 68134                      Spokane, WA 99217
       Phone: (509) 467-0986             Phone: (402) 571-4404             Phone: (509) 467-0986 ext. 123
        Fax: (509) 467-2425               Fax: (402) 571-3383                   Fax: (509) 467-2425
          Contact by Email                  Contact by Email                      Contact by Email


                         Copyright (C) 1996-2014 CMRI
                                   Webmaster


                    Valid XHTML 1.0 Transitional Valid CSS!


  • Espanol    Italiano


  • Traditional Catholic Faith
  • Articles on Catholic Doctrine
  • Baltimore Catechism

  • About CMRI
  • Introduction
  • History
  • Sedevacantist Position
  • Marian Spirit
  • Fatima Apostolate
  • Mass Locations (Chapels)
  • Seminary / Convents
  • Schools
  • CMRI Links
  • Contact Information

  • CMRI Priests & Brothers
  • Superior General:
    Bishop Mark A. Pivarunas
  • The Marian Fathers
  • The Marian Brothers
  • Seminary Newsletter
  • Sermons
  • Religious & Priestly Vocations
  • Minor Seminary

  • CMRI Sisters
  • The Marian Sisters
  • Sisters’ News and Photos
  • Steps in a Sister’s Life
  • Teaching Apostolate
  • Apostolate of the Press
  • Music: The Singing Nuns
  • Vocations
  • FAQ’s about CMRI Sisters
  • Fact Sheet
  • CMRI Confraternity
  • Lay Associates of CMRI

  • CMRI Publications
  • The Reign of Mary
  • Seminary Newsletter
  • 2016 Catholic Calendar
  • Traditional Catholic Books & Religious Articles








