Wednesday, January 13, 2016
   
Text Size
 

Site Search powered by Ajax

[ Search...          ]
  • Home
  • Blog
  • Eagle Flight
  • Cyber Studies
  • Pastors' Seminars
  • Ministry Resources
  • School of Discipleship
  • Character Studies

 Cyber Studies [arrow] Individual Studies [arrow] The Problem of Temptation Pt.
1

The Problem of Temptation Pt. 1

PDFPrintE-mail

Written by Bob Stone

INTRODUCTION: I think it can be shown that the people of any church will fit
one of four basic situations in relation to moral failure.
A. There are Christians like Joseph of the Old Testament, and Mary the mother
   of Jesus, who have been free from major conflicts and hang-ups in their
   lives. They aren't perfect; they still need the redeeming grace of God, but
   because of the protection and training of a Christian home, they have
   avoided a lot of sin. Thus their continuing sin may be pride and hypocrisy.

    

B. On the other hand, there are Christians who have had tremendous failures in
   the past and are still struggling with sinful habits, forces, and actions
   that leave them defeated.

    

C. There are also those who don't know Christ, and don't know or care that they
   are slaves to sin.

    

D. Finally, there are Christians who have experienced moral failures, and
   through a process such as we'll discuss here, they are now experiencing
   freedom.

    


Finally, there are Christians who have experienced moral failures, and through
a process such as we'll discuss here, they are now experiencing freedom.

This study is designed to be a special help to all those who fit into the
second and third situations. It is also designed to give those who are
experiencing present freedom and victory, a way to help those who are living a
life-style of failure and defeat--see James 5:19-20.

For purposes of continuity, we will use illustrations from the area of moral
failure (sexual sin), but keep in mind, the principles apply to all areas that
are in need of restoration and rehabilitation.

What do you do when you have fallen into a trap of sin and you desire a way of
getting out, but your failures have been long-term and your attempts to free
yourself have failed? Or how can you help someone who wants help, but has been
living a life-style of failure and defeat? As Christians, we can look at the
problems of failure and defeat, and see wonderful help available.

 

   As we look at the problems of failure and defeat, we will see that:
I. There are five basic ways in which freedom is achieved.

    

   A. The first is to recognize that freedom comes from the Lord. John 8:36--
      "So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed." This is obvious,
      but essential understanding. If freedom is to be achieved, FREEDOM MUST
      COME FROM JESUS CHRIST.

       

      1. It is important to see how Jesus "relates" to a person who is in sin.

          

         a. On one hand, you will find Him advocating unparalleled moral purity
            in His teachings--Matt. 5:27-28. It strikes to the heart of how a
            person thinks.

             

         b. On the other hand, He is a friend/restorer to the one who has
            fallen--John 8:1-11. v. 11--"Neither do I condemn you," Jesus
            declared, "go now and leave your life of sin." Here we see that
            Jesus didn't let the woman's sin stand in the way of restoration.

          

         Therefore, remember:
      2. It is the Lord who wants to help you - freedom comes from Him!
         Understand, His work in us is often a process, not an instantaneous
         cure.

         Charles Durham reflects on that in the following quote: "There will
         not be a single day in our lives when we do not need the redeeming
         grace of God in Jesus Christ. From this it follows that FAIL is what
         all humans do; CONTINUE TO TRY is what all Christians do; and ACCEPT
         ERRING CHRISTIANS is what God does. He continues: "Christians are not
         perfect - just forgiven." So says one bumper sticker that is wiser
         than most. This is not to say that we make no progress and do not
         become more like Christ. We do. But can you think of a single person
         in either the Old or New Testaments, other than Jesus Himself, whose
         life was an unbroken line of growth? I think not. In fact, if we could
         know in detail the lives of the biblical characters, we would probably
         see that many of them advanced in the same way we do, by taking three
         steps forward and two steps back."--Temptation, Charles Durham, IVP,
         p. 150.

         So understand, His work in us is often a process, not an instantaneous
         cure. How then does this freedom from sin come from the Lord?

          

         a. First, "recognize" what He has already done. Rom. 5:6-8--"You see,
            at just the right time, when we were still powerless, Christ died
            for the ungodly. Very rarely will anyone die for a righteous man,
            though for a good man someone might possibly dare to die. But God
            demonstrates his own love for us in this: While we were still
            sinners, Christ died for us." The only way freedom from sin can be
            realized is because Christ died for us on the cross.

             

            This is a well known fact, but how does it apply to our sin?
         b. Second, "remember" His death and "realize" that His death was our
            death too. Rom. 6:1-4--"What shall we say then? Shall we go on
            sinning so that grace may increase? By no means! We died to sin;
            how can we live in it any longer? Or don't you know that all of us
            who were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death?
            We were therefore buried with him through baptism into death in
            order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead through the
            glory of the Father, we to may live a new life."

            The declaration of freedom from sin is found in Rom. 5-8. So read
            it often, and pray through it, claiming its principles and
            promises! If you don't know these passages, you are missing a great
            deal of insight and help. Meditate on these chapters often.

             

               Looking back to Rom. 6, we see that:
            1) Jesus' death for sin was our death to sin and His resurrection
               was our resurrection. Verses 5-7--"If we have been united with
               him in his death, we will certainly also be united with him in
               his resurrection. For we know that our old self was crucified
               with him so that the body of sin might be rendered powerless,
               that we should no longer be slaves to sin - because anyone who
               has died has been freed from sin."

                

            2) Jesus' death and our death means then, that sin does not reign
               in us, it is rendered powerless. We are no longer slaves to sin.
               a) We don't need to struggle with sin any more than a person
                  physically dead has to. WE ARE NOW NO LONGER SLAVES TO
                  SIN--Rom. 6:11-13.
               b) The trick of Satan is to get us to say to ourselves and
                  others: "I can't get over this thing. I try, but I can't ever
                  win." What we have done, when we make a statement like that,
                  is to give testimony to the strength of the flesh - the old
                  man. However, that isn't where our present strength lies.

                   

            3) We are no longer slaves - we are free. So, when a thought of
               defeat ("I can't help myself...") is formed in your mind,
               substitute in its place, the truth... "In Christ I'm free..."

                

            4) Jesus' death and resurrection says to us then, we now have the
               option to offer ourselves as "instruments of wickedness" or
               "instruments of righteousness"--verse 13. Rom. 6:11-13--"In the
               same way, count yourselves dead to sin but alive to God in
               Christ Jesus. Therefore, do not let sin reign in your mortal
               body so that you obey its evil desires. Do not offer the parts
               of your body to sin, as instruments of wickedness, but rather
               offer yourselves to God, as those who have been brought from
               death to life; and offer the parts of your body to him as 
               instruments of righteousness."
               Definition of count: View it, consider it, as dead.

                

               a) As a child of God, we can keep sin dead or we can let it
                  live. It's our decision. WE NOW HAVE AN ALTERNATIVE.
               b) So picture your sins as being nailed to the cross with Jesus,
                  and that they no longer have power over you.
               c) Then as a substitution, offer yourselves as instruments of
                  righteousness.
               d) This is the first way freedom is achieved.

                  The first way freedom is achieved then is to recognize that
                  freedom comes from the Lord. He accomplished that for us by
                  His death and resurrection.

                   


 

   B. The second way is to place yourself under the Lord's therapy.

       

      1. This is like salvation. Phil.2:12-13--"Therefore, my dear friends, as
         you have always obeyed--not only in my presence, but now much more in
         my absence-- continue to work out your salvation with fear and
         trembling, 13] for it is God who works in you to will and to act
         according to his good purpose."

          

         a. The Lord saves us, but we must understand--working out our
            salvation is complex.

             

         b. We long for the simple answer, the shortcut, but there's more to it
            than that.

            C.S. Lewis writes: "If Christianity was something we were making
            up, of course we would make it easier, but it is not. We cannot
            compete, in simplicity, with people who are inventing religions.
            How could we? We are dealing with fact. Of course anyone can be
            simple if he has no facts to bother about"--Mere Christianity,
            MacMillan, p. 145.

            Charles Dunham also reflects on this truth. He writes: "'I'm
            quitting! God must do it all!' is the wrong attitude. Renewing the
            mind is DIVINE work, but it does not take place apart from HUMAN
            effort. We tend to confuse the gift of salvation, which is of grace
            and unearned by works, with sanctification. Sanctification is not
            substitutionary. It requires effort. Notice the beautiful balance
            of Scripture as it addresses this question: 'Work out your own
            salvation...for God is at work in you' --Phil. 2:12-13. You work
            because God is at work!--Temptation, IVP, p. 62.

             

            1) Our part is obedience. Phil 2:12--"...continue to work out your
               salvation with fear and trembling..."

                

               a) That doesn't mean we're working to get salvation; that is
                  settled.
               b) But it means there is a cooperative element we play in
                  respect to our salvation, and that element is OBEDIENCE.

                  Paul affirms this in I Cor. 9:24-27--"Do you not know that in
                  a race all the runners run, but only one gets the prize? Run
                  in such a way as to get the prize. Everyone who competes in
                  the games goes into strict training. They do it to get a
                  crown of laurel that will not last; but we do it to get a
                  crown that will last forever. Therefore, I do not run like a
                  man running aimlessly; I do not fight light a man shadow
                  boxing. No, I beat my body and make it my slave so that after
                  I have preached to others, I myself will not be disqualified
                  for the prize."

                  Summary: I offer Him my will, and by faith walk in the way
                  He's calling with reverent fear and dependency. How can I do
                  that?

                   

            2) The Lord's part is to enable us to continue, by working in us.
               v. 13--". . .for it is God who works in you to will and to act
               according to his good purpose." We obey. He says, "I'll help
               you."

                

            3) The Lord's part is His blood, His strength, His wisdom, and His
               Spirit working in me enabling, convicting, inspiring,
               encouraging, directing, reminding, etc.

                

            4) Summary: The part we play is obedience. I offer Him my will and
               walk in the way He's calling by faith, and He enables me to
               continue! What if that isn't working like it should? What if I'm
               still living in defeat? The Lord has special therapy in those
               cases. What is His therapy? What will give you and me victory
               over habitual sin?

                

      2. This is the Lord's therapy--it's radical and effective.

          

         a. If you are having continuing failure in any area, such as the area
            of lust, "...pluck out your eye and cut off your hand." That's the
            therapy for a person in need of a way out of a temptation. Matt.
            5:29-30--"If your right eye causes you to sin, gouge it out and
            throw it away. It is better for you to lose one part of your body
            than for your whole body to be thrown into hell. And if your right
            hand causes you to sin, but it off and throw it away. It is better
            for you to lose one part of your body than for your whole body to
            go into hell."

            This is an awesome statement. Why would Jesus say such a thing?

             

            1) This is what is called a "hyperbole."
            2) This is a figure of speech which comes from the Greek Hyper,
               "over" and Ballein, "to throw." So, it's an overthrow, an
               over-shooting, excess. It's a planned exaggeration to get an
               effect. It emphasizes a fact by over-statement. It's designed to
               draw attention and to make a person think about what is being
               said.
            3) This is a manner of speaking used in every culture, to some
               extent.

                

                  Examples in our culture would be:
               a) It's raining cats and dogs. (Really?)
               b) I got so mad I just blew up! (How did you get back together
                  again?)
               c) That's it! That's the straw that broke the camel's back.
                  (Heavy straw!)

                   

            4) This form of speech was totally understood by the disciples.
               They knew He wasn't advocating a literal course of action.

                

               a) If they believed it as literal, the message of Christ would
                  have been proclaimed by one-eyed amputees! They knew He
                  wasn't advocating that they rush to the chopping block to get
                  their hands cut off or their eyes gouged out.
               b) It is so sad when some have not understood this and taken
                  Christ literally. (See Appendix)
               c) It is a manner of speaking Jesus used often. For instance,
                  Jesus said: "It is easier for a camel to go through the eye
                  of a needle, than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God"
                  --Mark 10:25.
               d) Many strange interpretations have developed over this passage
                  because of failure to see the hyperbole that the Master was
                  using.

                   

            This sponsors an important question, however. Even though Jesus
            used a hyperbole, He is communicating something to us we need to
            hear. Why would Jesus use a hand and an eye in this context?
         b. If we think about it, we see there are two strong gateways to sin.
            1) In the context of verses 27-28, two of our five senses have a
               very strong pull in the area of sexual response.
               a) One is the power of sight, which is related to the eye.
               b) One is the power of touch, which is related to the hand.
                  Therefore,
            2) In those two areas, remove that which is leading to sin, i.e.,
               lust, verse 28.
               SPECIAL NOTE: If you or someone you know is unmarried and is in
               a relationship that is out of control, I have written a few
               specific words that may be of help. (See the Appendix II for
               some comments in the area of sexual failure.)

             

         c. In a general way, let's view each of these two gateways to sin.

             

            1) If you have a problem in relationship to the eye (literature,
               media), or if being in certain environments causes you to sin,
               then you have to cut out that activity or exposure
               completely--Luke 11:34-36.

               Here's an idea. Because the eye is such a powerful gateway to
               sin, here's a practical application: make an eye covenant--Job
               31:1; Psalm 119:37.
               *   Job, in 31:1, made a covenant with his eyes not to look upon
               a woman with an adulterous thought. He recognized that the
               thought is the father to the deed.
               *   In Psalm 119:37, David asks the Lord to turn his eyes away
               from beholding vanity.
               If you haven't already done so, make a covenant with your eyes
               so that you will have victory over this area of temptation. Why?
               I Tim. 2:22.

                

            2) If your problem is in the area of touch, then you'll have to
               discipline yourself to cut off any possible expression. The
               power of the eye is that it is the lamp of the body. Luke
               11:34-36--"Your eye is the lamp of your body. When your eyes are
               good, your whole body also is full of light. But when they are
               bad, your body also is full of darkness. See to it, then, that
               the light within you is not darkness. Therefore, if your whole
               body is full of light, and no part of it dark, it will be
               completely lighted, as when the light of a lamp shins on you."
                Once we are in bondage to something, we can't just slowly ease
               out of it. We will have to stop it completely if we want to
               recover. It's impossible to go from excess to moderation when it
               comes to sin. It must come to an abrupt stop.
                For instance, the main principle of A.A. is, that you don't
               ease out of alcoholism, you cut it off. You stop giving yourself
               a chance to fail and you replace that urge with something else.

                

            3) Summary: Whatever sense causes us to sin, we cut if off, whether
               it be the ear, the tongue, the eye, or the nose.

                

         Why is it necessary to be so radical?
      3. This will save us from ultimate judgment. Matt. 5:29b and 30b--"It is
         better for you to lose one part of your body than for your whole body
         to be thrown into hell."

          

         a. Weigh the cost and be obedient; the inconvenience and pain is worth
            it in comparison to the ultimate consequences, falling under God's
            wrath. The cost of sin is too great.
            NOTE: It makes no difference what our theology is...if this is not
            eternal judgment, then it is certainly judgment in this life.
            Whatever the case, the cost is too high! So nothing is too precious
            to eliminate from our life if it's going to cause our heart to
            lust, and ultimately, affect our eternity.

             

         b. In simple terms, it's better to lose a part than the whole.

             

         c. Therefore, weigh the cost and see what's best, slavery and death,
            or taking up your cross and dying to whatever it is that seeks to
            keep you in sin and slavery.
            1) This, again, is a great deterrent to those of us who are not
               always motivated by our love for God and others. The judgment of
               God will be felt if we don't heed this instruction.
            2) We need to answer this question: Do we want a deathlike
               existence or life? If we choose life, it will not be easy,
               especially if we enjoy what we're getting out of this activity,
               but we must weigh the cost and be obedient. But remember, God
               has something to put in its place that will far exceed our
               expectations. We must trust Him!

       

      The Lord's therapy is radical and effective, but trust God that He has
      something to put in its place that will far exceed our expectations. God
      has more for us.
   C. The third way freedom is achieved involves a new input and mindset for
      the mind. By necessity, this is tied to the second way of freedom.

       

      1. This is the middle step, in-between what is called " the great put off
         and put on"--Eph. 4:22-24--"You were taught, with regard to your
         former way of life, to put off your old self, which is being corrupted
         by its deceitful desires; 23] to be made new in the attitude of your
         minds; 24] and to put on the new self, created to be like God in true
         righteousness and holiness."

         -- What is needed is to have our brains washed and new attitudes put
         in our minds.

         -- We can't exist with the old attitudes.

         -- Before positive action can be lasting, new attitudes must replace
         the old ones--v. 23.

         -- So if we want to put on the new self--v. 24, then we must first
         replace negative and sinful attitudes.

          

         a. For instance, what is your attitude about your own personal sins?
               Here are a few examples of incorrect attitudes:
            1) Your body. Is it a tool for self-gratification--your servant, to
               give you any kind of joy you want?
            2) Women or men. Are they objects or necessary evils to be
               exploited and manipulated to get what you want?
            3) Artificial substances (drugs, alcohol, etc.). Are they a way to
               get happy--to deal with loneliness?
            4) Wealth, possessions. Are they necessary for fulfillment and
               contentment?
            5) Your enemy. Is he or she someone to hurt in order to get
               revenge?
            6) Stealing. Do you long to get something for nothing, even if you
               have to cheat or rip someone off?
            7) Church. Do you see it as a place to get something, but where you
               feel no obligation to contribute anything?

             

         b. For complete deliverance to take place, you will need to change
            your attitude. Only a change of mindset will allow you to
            substitute something better for your sin. Why? Because our
            attitudes determine what we do and say.
               For instance, your attitude towards:
            1) Your body. It must change from a tool of self-gratification to a
               temple of the Holy Spirit, where your desire is to glorify God.
               I Cor. 6:19--"Do you not know that your body is a temple of the
               Holy Spirit, who is in you, whom you have received from God? You
               are not your own..."
            2) Women and men. They aren't objects to manipulate or exploit;
               they are made in the image of God, and if believers, are your
               brothers and sisters in Christ. If not believers, then they are
               ones for whom Christ died. They aren't your slaves or someone to
               be manipulated, you are to be their servants. Gal. 5:13--"You,
               my brothers, were called to be free. But do not use your freedom
               to indulge the sinful nature; rather, serve one another in
               love."
            3) Artificial substances. Your joy and happiness comes as a
               by-product of a proper relationship with God--Ps. 19:8; Ps.1.
               Your calling is not to be drunk with wine, that only leads to
               further sin, but instead, be filled with the Spirit.
               ·   Ps. 19:8--"The precepts of the Lord are right, giving joy to
               the heart. The commands of the lord are radiant, giving light to
               the eyes."
               ·  Eph. 5:18--"Do not get drunk on wine, which leads to
               debauchery. Instead, be filled with the Spirit."
            4) Wealth, possessions. Our fulfillment cannot be from the
               acquiring of things. Scripture indicates our attitude should not
               be arrogance, but it should be that of a servant, who is rich in
               good deeds.
               ·   I Tim. 6:6--"But godliness with contentment is great gain."
               ·   I Tim. 6:17-18--"Command those who are rich in this present
               world not to be arrogant nor to put their hope in wealth, which
               is so uncertain, but to put their hope in God, who richly
               provides us with everything for our enjoyment. 18] Command them
               to do good, to be rich in good deeds, and to be generous and
               willing to share."
            5) Your enemy. Our attitude should not be of revenge, but of
               goodness towards them. Rom. 12:21--"Do not be overcome by evil,
               but overcome evil with good."
            6) Stealing. Our attitude of coveting must be replaced with an
               attitude of sharing with those in need. Eph. 4:28--"He who has
               been stealing must steal no longer, but must work, doing
               something useful with his own hands, that he may have something
               to share with those in need."
            7) Church. The church is not a government handout, it's a community
               of people we are to be devoted to in love and service. Rom.
               12:10-13--"Be devoted to one another in brotherly love. Honor
               one another above yourselves. 11] Never be lacking in zeal, but
               keep your spiritual fervor, serving the Lord. 12] Be joyful in
               hope, patient in affliction faithful in prayer. 13] Share with
               God's people who are in need. Practice hospitality."

               Summary: These are just a representative sampling of attitude
               changes that are needed. Whatever the area of sin you are
               struggling with, seek to expose the lie and replace it with a
               positive attitude.


          

         What should our minds be set on? Generally speaking:
      2. The new mindset is to be on what the Spirit desires. Rom. 8:5--"Those
         who live according to the sinful nature, have their minds set on what
         that nature desires; but those who live in accordance with the Spirit,
         have their minds set on what the Spirit desires."

          

         a. We now focus away from our own desires to what the Spirit desires.

            In the area of moral failure:

         b. We recognize our main sex organ is our mind, so we need to
            constantly ask to have the Lord's desire for this area of our life.
            "Lord, my thoughts are evil. What do you think about this person"?

          

         More specifically, how do we fill our minds with the right input?
      3. The new input is that which comes from the therapy of God's Word. 
         God's Word will provide us with needed therapy.

          

         a. We need to change our attitude by thinking God's thoughts.

            How do we begin to think God's thoughts?

         b. We do that by memorizing and meditating on God's Word.
            ·   Ps. 1:1-3--"Blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel
            of the wicked or stand in the way of sinners or sit in the seat of
            mockers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law
            he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of
            water, which yields its fruit in season and whose leaf does not
            wither. Whatever he does prospers."
            ·   Ps. 119:9,11--"How can a young man keep his way pure? By living
            according to your word. 11] I have hidden your word in my heart
            that I might not sin against you."
            1) I've seen some minds begin to be quickly and totally transformed
               when people memorize and meditate on Scripture.
            2) When Scripture becomes a focus of our thinking through
               memorization and meditation, it will have a tremendous impact on
               changing our attitudes. We cannot emphasize enough the
               importance of biblical meditation and memorization.
      So we need to A. First, recognize that freedom comes from the Lord. We
      need to B. Second, place ourselves under the Lord's therapy. C. Third, we
      need to involve ourselves in new input and a new mindset for the mind.
      But there is still more help available:

 

< Prev        Next >

Cyber Studies

  • Individual Studies
  • Psalms: Songs For Life
  • Living a Love Life
  • Living Foundations for the Church
  • Actions and Attitudes of a Growing Church
  • The Book of James
  • Studying the Psalms and Worship
  • The RACE
  • The Person God Uses
  • Character Studies
  • Outreach
  • The Chalk Revival
  • Prayer Training
  • Men
  • Women
  • Christmas

  • About the Author
  • Contact
  • Privacy Policy
  • Terms of Use

Back to Top
© Copyright 2009 Eagleflight.org . All Rights Reserved
