Papal Infallibility

Anthony S. Wohl, Professor of History, Vassar College

[vntop]

[Victorian Web Home —> Religion —> Roman Catholicism —> Politics and Society]

[Disponible en espan~ol]

1869-1870 decrees issued by the Vatican Council declared the Pope infallible in
matters of faith. Once again, the challenge to the main trends of Victorian
liberalism was considerable and in England Papal Infallibility was feared as a
possible doctrinal springboard for further "Papal Aggression." Comments such as
the following from Dublin's Canon Thomas Pope were hardly calculated to allay
that fear:

The [Papal] Council will vindicate its authority over the world and prove its
right, founded on a divine commission, to enter most intimately into all the
spiritual concerns of the world, to supervise the acts of the king, the
diplomatist, the philosopher, and the general - - to circumscribe the limits of
their speculative inquiries . . . to subjugate human reason to the yoke of
faith -- to extinguish liberals, rationalists, and deists by one stroke of her
infallibility. (Quoted in Norman 87).

Not surprisingly, the Vatican decrees provoked most anger and attendant
anti-Catholic feeling from intellectuals. They "failed to provoke the vulgar
wrath, as the Maynooth Grant question of 1845 and the 'Papal Aggression'
episode in 1850 had done. It was to men of 'enlightened opinion' that the
Council's work seemed most distasteful." (Norman 80.) Among those who abhorred
the challenge to the progress of the liberal state was none other than the
leader of the Liberal party, and Prime Minister when the principle of Papal
Infallibility was announced, Gladstone himself. Gladstone kept his silence
while he was Prime Minister, partly for fear of jeopardizing his {Irish
policy}. But as so as he was out of office, Gladstone, who had a good "record
of righteous opposition to anti-Catholic bigotry and intolerance" (Norman 81)
gave angry vent to his feelings in a powerful criticism The Vatican Decrees in
their bearing on Civil Allegiance: A Political Expostulatio (1874} , in which
he raised the old anti-Catholic spectre of the inability of English Catholics
to be good English citizens.

Although the reaction in England was by no means as far-reaching as the 
{Kulturkampf in Bismarck's Germany} it exacerbated old anti-Catholic and
especially anti-Roman feeling and tested the degree of tolerance of the
normally well-disposed liberals. To Cardinal Manning, Archbishop of
Westminster, 1865-1892), writing in 1877, Gladstone's Liberal party "have put
off their former nature, and have changed places with persecutors."(H. E.
Manning, The True Story of the Vatican Council, p. 176, quoted in Norman 104.)
Certainly Gladstone's fiery pamphlet won the applause of many liberals as well
as extreme Protestants and served to allay fears that Gladstone, both
politically and religiously, was far too sympathetic towards Catholics.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
 

Victorian
Web
 

Political
History
 

Religion
 

Roman
Catholicism

Last modified 1998

Last modified 4 April 2002

