UMYF.net Online Services

Member News, Notices and Updates

[                    ] [U]
 

  • Accessing E-mail
  • UMYF Directory
      □ North Central Jurisdiction
      □ Northeastern Jurisdiction
      □ South Central Jurisdiction
      □ Southeastern Jurisdiction
      □ Western Jurisdiction
  • Contact Us

Service Update

trinity November 28, 2015 0 Comments

Dear UMYF.net Member,

It’s hard to believe that just over 18 years ago, UMYF.net was founded by 2
high school students and a youth pastor serving a United Methodist Church in
Clearwater, Florida. Over those 18+ years, we’ve hosted thousands of websites
and processed hundreds of millions of e-mails. UMYF.net had the largest reach
on the Internet of any United Methodist organization online. In one month
alone, we served websites to over half a million visitors.

Over the years, social media has played an ever increasing role in the way we
share information with others. Since UMYF.net was founded and based upon
creating websites to share information, our traffic has dropped considerably
and we don’t see the activity that we once saw. Given the shift from
collaborating via websites to social media outlets, we’ve made the incredibly
tough decision to cease UMYF.net’s web hosting operations.

Effective Monday, November 30th, 2015, UMYF.net will no longer offer any web
hosting services and all existing web hosting accounts will be closed and
removed from our servers. If you have a website currently hosted with UMYF.net,
you will need to download your web content and upload it to a new provider.
After Monday, November 30th, 2015, your website content will no longer be
available and we will not be able to assist you with accessing your website
content.

If you have an active e-mail account on the UMYF.net servers, your account will
be moved to a new e-mail server on Monday, November 30th, 2015. Your e-mail
content on the current UMYF.net e-mail server will not be retained or
transferred to the new server. You will need to download all of your existing
e-mail before Monday, November 30th, 2015. As we get closer to the migration to
the new e-mail server, we will send additional instructions on how to access
your @umyf.net e-mail account going forward.

While we are sad to arrive at the decision to discontinue web hosting
operations, we are happy to say that the new e-mail service will be a
significant upgrade from the current service.

We thank you all for the past 18+ years of working with UMYF.net and we look
forward to many more years.

Warm regards,
Your UMYF.net Support Team
support@umyf.net

UMYF.net News

umyf

Family Members With Mental Illness: What You Need to Know

trinity December 15, 2015

Source

Christmas always comes with sort of mixed emotions for me. On one hand, I know
it’s all about the birth of our Savior and the ultimate promise fulfilled
though the arrival of the Messiah. In addition, the happiest memories from my
childhood all happened at Christmas.  I was showered with presents which was a
huge way that my mom specifically showed me love. Yet, it also marks a really
hard time of year for me. There is a lot of energy that I spend being
supportive and loving as my family struggles through darkness and uncertainty.
You see both of my parents suffer from mental illness, and while they weren’t
both diagnosed fully until I left home, it has always been there under the
surface for as long as I can remember. Between the two of them there is a
cocktail of bipolar depression, clinical depression, post-traumatic stress
disorder, traumatic brain injury, attempts to take their lives, and agoraphobia
(the fear of crowds and basically leaving the house).

In the past few weeks, I have been really touched by the interviews and
articles discussing this topic on YouthMinistry.com. (See Kay Warren on Grief
and Facing Mental Illness and Mental Health Stigma: Is it an issue in your
youth group?) and   That’s why I reached out and asked if I might give a voice
to the student who is growing up in a home where parents are hurting in a way
that no one can explain. Out of respect to honor my parents, I have asked to
remain anonymous. So here I stand today an advocate for the family.  I would
like to tell you some things you might like to know about a household with
mental illness:

 1. You Can’t See It From The Outside Looking In

When you are growing up in a family the only normal you know is the one you
experience.  So to be honest while there were nights when I cried myself to
sleep, at the time I thought most teens just struggled to get along with their
parents.  My parents were involved, and tried to come to almost every event in
which I participated.  As a matter of fact, we worked really hard as a family
to pretend we had it all together. On the outside, my parents were interested
in my life, well-kept, and happy. The mask I wore was of the confident,
over-achieving perfectionist at the top of my class. It was behind the closed
doors that things were a mess. It was here that both my parents coped with
challenges by sleeping. There were times when my parents slept entire days
away. My Dad would give all he had at work, come home nap, get up eat dinner,
and then go back to bed. If my father was more than 10 minutes late home from
work, my Mom would turn off all of the lights in our house, stand by the window
sobbing in a panic attack and repeat over and again, “I just know he’s dead.” 
From the time I was at least 10-years-old, it was my job to sit next to her and
tell her he was not dead, and that he was going to be fine. I heard from my Mom
over the years more times than I can count that she wished she was not alive.
In an effort to make me different from them there was extreme pressure to
perform, be perfect, never mess up, and manipulation was used to get the
desired results. There was anger that erupted into screaming, throwing things,
and hitting. Then when the “fight” was done, it was if it had never happened at
all. All of this came from deep reserves of not knowing why they couldn’t just
feel good.

 2. No One Knows How to Respond Well

We put all mental illness in a bucket, but it means so many different things.
They say hurting people hurt people, healed people bring healing, and broken
people can’t be well. These people can’t “get happy” or get beyond their
issues. It isn’t always someone hearing voices or rambling to them in a corner.
When I was growing up, no one had a clue on how to interact when they found out
there was a bandaid holding back a festering wound. One time when my parents
admitted to a pastor they were falling apart the response was, “Well, maybe if
you were more involved, we could be there for you. However, you get what you
give.” What my parents needed was unconditional love without judgement, or at
least a helping hand. This caused them to walk away from church for many years,
and created a belief that faith is transactional. If things were going bad,
“God was mad at them for not doing enough.” As a matter of fact so much in life
had wounded them everything was a transaction: love, service, and care. You
take care of me, and I will take care of you. To this day, people stare at me
blankly when they find out my parents struggle. We always talk about the
“stigma” of mental illness and that is what causes people to hide. More often
than not, when someone finally opens up about their struggle to get help, it
goes awry. Why on earth would you put yourself out there again? So, instead you
become someone who can at least survive the day. If you get through today at
least you accomplished something worthwhile. When you are mentally ill or
living with someone who is mentally ill, you just want to talk about it. You
need to ramble and tell stories. You aren’t looking for compassion or empathy.
Sometimes you just need to be reminded of what hope looks like.

 3. Students From These Homes Probably Don’t Know What Normal Really Is

It wasn’t until well into my adult years and landing in counseling by accident
that I began to peel back the layers of my upbringing.  I can still recall my
first therapist telling me, “You are not crazy. Your parents are,” and the huge
wave of relief that washed over me.  After years of trying to be perfect for
Jesus, he started to show me he loved me just because he made me. I had never
realized that I didn’t have to do anything to earn that love. I had never been
cared for with no strings attached. It wasn’t until I met my husband that I
came to learn what that felt like from a person.

It isn’t that I don’t have happy memories from when I was young, I do, like at
Christmas. In our strange transactional love, my mom wanted to give to us
extravagantly. Christmas and birthdays were the two times of the year I saw she
was trying, genuinely doing the best with what she had to offer. However, over
all my childhood was not what I would call happy. There was sadness, but more
so, I would say it was strained. Through much prayer, I have come to understand
and forgive my parents for the ways they could (and still can be) hurtful. I
have learned how to navigate situations with them, and have come to see that it
is not my job to make them happy.

When I first got married, I would tell stories from my childhood like eating
Thanksgiving in our pajamas, because that’s when it finally was cooked at 10:00
p.m. (Depression does not get you out of bed for an early turkey), and my
husband would just look at me with an eyebrow raised.  For many years I would
smile and say, “That wasn’t normal was it?” He helped me process when the
answer was, “no,” and what to do with that (Sometimes we are still doing
that.).

 4. Hold Out On Passing Judgement

My upbringing has made me a radical advocate for parents. Looking back at my
childhood, I just wanted healthy parents. I wish there had been a youth pastor
in my life that could see past my well-kept mask, and instead let me ramble
about my home life. I just wanted to process. To this day, that’s all I am
looking for. I even now embrace some of the good traits I inherited from my
parents like the power of generosity. I can’t stress this enough, not one
person beyond those that lived in our home had any clue about our family. My
mom seemed a little anxious and overbearing and my dad seemed slightly
emotionally distant. There are extended family members and old friends of the
family who just think my parents are a little “odd.”

I wish I could tell you this all ends like the finish of a beautiful movie
where everyone is well and full of joy. Instead, my parents have gotten worse
as they have gotten older. There is not as much anger, but now years of
medication has led to confusion and forgetfulness on top of some physical
ailments. As an only child, taking care of them has become complicated. Many
people have asked me why I don’t just cut them off. Do I wish some days it
could be different?  Of course I do. It can be exhausting as just five minutes
ago I was convincing my mother that life is not as destitute as it might
appear, and I have that conversation daily. However, she’s the only mom I have.
Jesus helps me know how to forgive, navigate things, and learn how to raise my
own children differently.

 

Here is the number one thing to remember: Every child loves their parent no
matter who they are.

I just had to learn that loving them might look different than it does for
others. Maybe this is where my tenacity comes into play to help the church
genuinely forge partnerships with families, all of them, even the ones with
lots of pain.

After many, many years my mom was invited to a Bible study one day by a friend
that she took a chance on. By the end of the first visit, people had prayed
with her, and even offered some practical help my parents needed. I have never
met a group of people like this church who just embraced my parents and loved
them. They didn’t ask questions or make decisions about who they should be;
instead everyone accepted them as God’s beautiful children. It was the first
time they ever felt “good enough” to be a part of the body of Christ.

Who can you find in your midst today that might need you to love them with the
love that Christ offers? This love is powerful, offers a light in the darkness,
and does whatever it takes to show itself. Can you love a family like that
today? I wish someone had done that for us when I was still at home. In the end
that’s all we were really looking for, and honestly all that any of us still
are.

– See more at: http://youthministry.com/
family-members-with-mental-illness-what-you-need-to-know/#sthash.ftw8PYXx.dpuf

Youth Minister Information

Dear Parents of Teenagers, Here are 5 reasons you should keep your teens
involved in youth group…

trinity December 12, 2015

Dear Parents of Teenagers, Here are 5 reasons you should keep your teens
involved in youth group…

Posted by Greg Stier

Find me on:

Facebook Twitter

5 Reasons You Should Keep Your Teens Involved in Youth Group

Dear Parents of Teenagers,

Thanks for all you do to invest in the life of your teenager(s). You probably
feel like an uber driver (ready to pick them up/drop them off when they call),
coach (helping them perfect their sport), tutor (working with them on
homework), guidance counsellor (preparing them for the future) and, sometimes,
a jockey (pushing them to cross the finish line…without a whip of course!)…all
wrapped up in one!

That’s why, with all the insane busyness of parenting a teen, it’s easy to let
youth group attendance slide off the grid. It’s tempting to think, “My kid’s
just too busy for a night of hanging out with other teenagers, playing some
goofy games and hearing another Bible lesson.”

Believe me when I say, I understand the temptation. As a parent of a teenager
(who has tons of homework, plays football and is not yet old enough to drive)
my wife and I are constantly under pressure to measure every event through the
lenses of what matters most. And we have decided that youth group attendance
must be a priority. Although we view ourselves as the primary spiritual
influence of our kids, we also believe that a strong youth ministry plays a
vital role in his overall spiritual development.

With this as a backdrop here are 5 short, yet powerful, reasons you should
encourage (make?) your teenager(s) go to youth group:

1.  Teenagers need models and mentors.

“O God, You have taught me from my youth, And I still declare Your wondrous
deeds. And even when I am old and gray, O God, do not forsake me, Until I
declare Your strength to this generation, Your power to all who are to come. “
 Psalm 71:17,18

In the Jewish culture it wasn’t just parents that poured into the younger
folks. Older men poured into younger men and older women poured into younger
women (Titus 2:1-8.)

Of course you as a parent are called to be the primary spiriutal mentor of your
own teenager but he/she also needs other godly adults! It’s important for your
son or daughter to see that this whole “Christianity thing” is more than just
mom’s and dad’s belief system. They need to have models and mentors that
reinforce all of the spiritual truth they are learning from you.

2.  Teenagers need community.

“And let us consider how we may spur one another on toward love and good
deeds, not giving up meeting together, as some are in the habit of doing, but
encouraging one another—and all the more as you see the Day approaching.”  
Hebrews 10:24,25

In an age of bullying, gossip, slander and hatefulness (which can destroy a
teenager’s self-identity), young people need other young people who can lift
them up, encourage them and challenge them in all the right ways.

Youth group is also a place where teenagers can discover their spiritual
gifting and begin to use it to serve others. This will help them have a heart
to selflessly serve others for the rest of their lives!

3.  Teenagers need mission.

When Jesus challenged his most-likely teenaged disciples to “go and make
disciples of all nations”, he was tapping into the activist wiring of these
young men. In the same way your teenager needs challenged with the mission to
reach their peers with the good news of Jesus in a loving and contagious way.

Youth group is a place where your teenager can invite their unbelieving friends
to hear the gospel. But it’s also a place where they can be equipped to share
the good news of Jesus with their own peers (which will help them grow in their
faith!) As your youth leader continues to build a Gospel Advancing ministry the
message of Jesus will advance in them and through them. This process will
accelerate the disicpleship process in the life of your teen in ways you could
never imagine!

4.  Teenagers need theology.

“Then we will no longer be immature like children. We won’t be tossed and blown
about by every wind of new teaching. We will not be influenced when people try
to trick us with lies so clever they sound like the truth. Instead, we will
speak the truth in love, growing in every way more and more like Christ, who is
the head of his body, the church.”  Ephesians 4:14,15

Youth group is a place where teenagers can wrestle through the theology you’ve
been teaching them (you’ve been teaching them right?) and have it reinforced in
a powerful and personal way under the guidance of a youth leader who knows how
to ask great questions and point teens to sound truth.

This should result in your teenagers knowing and owning their faith on a deeper
level. Youth groups and small groups should be a place where teenagers can ask
tough questions and even share doubts and struggles with their beliefs without
fear of rebuke. Skilled youth leaders can take questioning teens back to God’s
Word as the source of authority and help them process through all of the
Biblical truth you are praying they grasp, believe and live out.

Great youth groups build on the foundation that godly moms and dads have laid.
And, for those teenagers who don’t have believing parents, an effective youth
ministry helps lay a solid foundation of Biblical truth for the rest of a
teenager’s life.

5.  Teenagers need a safe place to confess and confide.

“Confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you may be
healed.”  James 5:16

Often teenagers who struggle with sin and temptation have nowhere to confess
and confide. They feel trapped by their sins. But a healthy youth ministry can
create a safe space for teenagers to open up and talk honestly about their
struggles. Of course this doesn’t mean they should confess every sin to
everyone. But it does mean that they should have a handful of others who know
their struggles and can pray for and encourage them to walk in victory over
those sins.

When my son came back from a youth retreat last year he had this opportunity.
He opened up with a handful of others about some of his struggles and then he
came back and opened up to me. After he confessed his struggles he told me that
he felt a thousand pound weight had dropped off his back.

Here’s the thing, my son and I have a very strong and very open relationship.
But there was something about his band of brother friends, under the leadership
of a caring adult in a youth retreat type setting, that gave him the freedom to
confess and confide.

Skilled youth leaders know how to create a context of open and honest dialogue.
Teenagers who push their struggles down and never open up often struggle later
on in life with addictive and destructive behavior. An effective youth ministry
can help teenagers deal with these challenges now and prepare them to be
victorious both now and later.

Yes, I know that teen life is busy. But it would be a shame if our teenagers
graduated from high school and were catapulted into “the real world” without
every opportunity to know, live, share and own their faith.

At the end of the day, our teenagers embracing and embodying the Christian
faith is more important than sports and more important than academics. Getting
them involved in a healthy, vibrant youth ministry is worth fitting into a
crazy, busy schedule. And if it’s not quite as healthy as you think it should
be then why don’t you volunteer and make it better?

There’s too much at stake for us to get this wrong. So let’s get it right!

To Reach a Generation,

Greg Stier (a fellow parent of a teenager and Founder of Dare 2 Share)

(Original Source)

Youth Group Information

UMYF.net
[                    ] [U]
Recent Posts

  • Family Members With Mental Illness: What You Need to Know
  • Dear Parents of Teenagers, Here are 5 reasons you should keep your teens
    involved in youth group…
  • Service Update

Important Links

  • Access UMYF.net Webmail

  • Access UMYF.net Support

  • Youth Ministry Institute

  • UMYF.net Service Update

