go to navigation skip navigation and go to content

Benedictine Sisters Mount St. Scholastica

Atchison, Kansas

[Search]
 1. Home
 2. About Us
 3. Prayer
 4. Ministries
 5. Share Our Life
 6. Publications
 7. Donate

[1455] [1484] [1486] [1485] [1499] [1500] [134]

 Latest News 

Enjoy a virtual trip to Brazil
Several of our sisters are traveling to Brazil in January for Sister Ironide
Nunes' final profession. Join them virtually via their online photo journal. 

Check out our favorite photos from December
We just posted a photo gallery of our favorite photos from December. Check them
out!

Sister Jodi Hart makes first profession
Sister Jodi Hart made her first monastic profession on Dec. 13. Read about it
and see a photo gallery. 

Kansas aging department honors Dooley Center
The Dooley Center, Mount St. Scholastica's on-site skilled nursing facility, is
one of 10 nursing homes to receive the Peak 2.0 Award from the Kansas
Department for Aging and Disability Services. Read more. 

Dooley Center earns excellence award
The Dooley Center has received an award for customer satisfaction. Read more. 

New directors named for Mount Ministries
Sister Carol Ann Petersen has been named director of the Sophia Center and
Sister Bridget Dickason has been named director of the Keeler Women's Center. 
Read more.  

See more news

 

Our Vision

Our vision is a future of hope created by living the Rule of St. Benedict as we
respond to the needs of the times.

Our Mission

Our mission is to seek God through community life, prayer, ministry, and care
for all of creation.

Be Our Guest

In chapter 53 of The Rule of St. Benedict we read: "All guests who present
themselves are to be welcomed as Christ, for He Himself will say: I was a
stranger and you welcomed me." (Matt. 25:35) We hope you will enjoy our web
offerings and one day be able to visit us and be refreshed by the hospitality
we offer through our prayer and communal living "That in all things God may be
glorified." 

 

Prayer Request
Link to Vocations page
Thanks to your support, our Night of Dreams was a great success!
Link to Calendar
Download and read a copy of our latest Threshold magazine
for Winter 2014 (It's in PDF format)


Mount St. ScholasticaMount St. Scholastica Tour

How Can You Help?

Giving | Volunteering

Benedictine Sisters Mount St. Scholastica

801 South 8th St., Atchison, KS 66002 Phone 913.360.6200 Fax 913.360-6190
Follow us: Facebook Twitter
Guest Book | Contact Us
