Toggle navigation Bradley Baptist Association

  • About
  • Blog
  • Calendar
      □ Full Calendar
      □ Block Party Trailer
  • Directory
  • Missional Living
      □ In Our Jerusalem
          ☆ Across Bradley County
              ○ Across Bradley County Reminders
              ○ GPS Training
          ☆ Christian Women's Job Corps
          ☆ Collegiate Ministries
          ☆ Ethnic Ministries
              ○ Breaking Down Barriers
              ○ Needs, So Many Needs
              ○ You Can Help
              ○ Don't Forget The MAIN Thing!
              ○ Ethnic International Resources
          ☆ LateNight Basketball
          ☆ Ocoee Outreach
          ☆ Project Helping Hands
          ☆ Jobs Ministry
          ☆ Vacation Bible School
      □ Heart Cry Southeast
      □ Disaster Relief
      □ DC Partnership
          ☆ DC Mission Trip
          ☆ About the Church Planters
      □ International Missions
          ☆ Online Registration
          ☆ Mission Activities Agreement
          ☆ Romania 2016
              ○ 2015 Romania Brochure
          ☆ IWC Mexico 2016
          ☆ IWC Mexico 2013
  • Publications
      □ Annuals & Other Publications
      □ Beacon Newsletter
  • Media
      □ Audio
      □ Photos
      □ Videos
      □ Phil Taylor's Resources
      □ Finding God in the City
  • Resources
      □ Association Library
      □ Equipment
      □ Phil Taylor's Resources
      □ Block Party Resources
      □ Ethnic/International Ministry Resources
      □ Love Your City
      □ Jobs Ministry
      □ Links
      □ Help Network Guide (PDF)
      □ Ocoee Regional Resource Guide
      □ Resources regarding same-sex marriage
  • Contact

 1.
 2.
 3.

 

2016 International Missions

Please pray about joining us in Romania, June 23-July 2. For Ages 22 and up. We
are also doing a trip to Veracruz, Mexico, July 2-9. For Ages 15-22.

 

Ocoee Outreach 2016

Our theme for Ocoee Outreach in 2016 "Restore - Renew - Reach" is based 1 John
3:16-18 and our Mission Statement.  It is the Mission of Ocoee Outreach to
share the Love of Christ with others by restoring homes, renewing hope, and
reaching hearts. Our goal is to use the tool of home repair and outreach to
children, seniors and families to introduce them to Jesus Christ!

 

On Mission in Washington, DC: March 19-24, 2016

We will be serving alongside our SBC Church Planters in reaching DC through
servant evangelism projects, community service projects, outreach to children,
and contronstuction work on a volunteer center.

  

Welcome to the Bradley Baptist Association

 
http://bradleybaptist.org/cms/uploads/images/homepage/DCpartnership.png
Washington, DC DC Partnership Proposal (27min)
 
http://bradleybaptist.org/cms/uploads/images/homepage/dcpromo.png
Washington, DC Partnership Promo Video (4min)
 
http://bradleybaptist.org/cms/uploads/images/homepage/bradstanley.png
Finding God in the City: Making Sense of an Urban World

Our Vision is to encourage, equip and empower the cooperating churches in the
Bradley County area to fulfill their Great Commission vision locally and
globally, by providing resources and opportunities to be on-mission with God.
Our Mission is to Exalt the Savior,Encourage the Shepherds, Equip the Saints
amd is Empowered by Prayer.

Washington, DC Partnership

Since October 2014, the Bradley Baptist Association has explored partnering
with SEND DC Church Planters, Zack Bekele (Gilgal Ethiopian Church) and Zack
Randles (Waterfront Church). At our Spring Missions Gathering held at First
Baptist Cleveland this April, God confirmed His blessing on our  partnership
through a vote of our partnering churches. Our DC partnership will be based on
the Three “P”s of Prayer, People and Provisional support.

We are asking each BBA church to prayerfully consider the amount of 
provisional support they can provide to our partnering Church Planters in 2015
and beyond. In particular, Zack Bekele is in the process of raising his support
and will need to know soon how the BBA will be able to support him. We are
setting a goal of $30,000 to support both Pastor Zack Bekele and Pastor Zack
Randles in 2015. We already have $12,000 pledged and are seeking an additional
$1,000 per partnering church to be given by the end of 2015.

Learn More

What does it mean to be a Sothern Baptist?

By Johnnie Godwin
Contributing Columnist, B&R
Published November 20, 2015 in the Baptist and Reflector

I recently performed the wedding ceremony of a granddaughter, who is also a
marathoner. Both bride and groom had just completed serious courses on what
Christian marriage means. In their ceremony of covenant marriage, here’s what I
said: “Marriage is a marathon — not a half-marathon or a trial run in an ‘iffy’
thing called “a relationship.” Then the couple made their own vows to affirm
the kind of life and death covenant commitment Paul described in Ephesians for
church and marriage.

So what does it mean to be a Southern Baptist? Ask that same question to any
one of almost 16 million Southern Baptists today, and you likely won’t get a
specific, clear, accurate New Testament answer.

Continue Reading
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Have you heard of the four spiritual laws? Just as there are physical laws that
govern the physical universe, so are there spiritual laws that govern your
relationship with God.

The Four Spiritual Laws
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Bradley Baptist Association | 2707 North Ocoee Street | Cleveland, TN 37312 |
(423) 476-5493 | Contact Us

