Stallsville United Methodist Church

God is good all the time.

  • Home
  • Calendar
  • Ministries
  • What's Happening
  • History
  • Contact Us

[sumc-color] [please] [FullSizeRe]

Come join us!

We are a congregation with an abundance of spiritual resources, ministry
opportunities, and compassionate outreach. Our programs have a solid biblical
and theological foundation, and are carried out by talented staff and dedicated
volunteers. God is the source of all that we do and all that we are at
Stallsville. In Sunday worship, God nurtures us and calls us to service.

Our Sunday worship service is meaningful, creative, and inspirational. The Word
of God is the driving force of worship; and music, prayers, and liturgies
complement the Word. Holy Communion is celebrated every first Sunday of the
month. We, like other United Methodist churches, celebrate an open communion
which means that all Christians, no matter what their denomination, may receive
the elements of Holy Communion. The sacrament of Baptism is available for
infants, children, youth and adults by calling the church office and arranging
an appointment with the Pastor. We also have many other special Worship
services throughout the year; like Advent, Lent, Easter Sunrise service, etc.
Children's sermon and children's church for children fifth grade and under.
Nursery services are provided for children ages 3 and under. Many of our
meetings and extra activities also have nursery service available. As an
alternative, we offer a mother's room adjacent to the sanctuary where you may
continue to worship with your child.

We welcome you to visit our service, and we pray you will find your spiritual
home at Stallsville. Our service is at 10:00 a.m. and is a combined
contemporary and traditional service with a praise band and a choir.

Sunday Fellowship Time is from 8:30 to 9 a.m. when the congregation convenes in
the Hilton Building to share in coffee and doughnuts. This is a wonderful time
of fellowship.

image

Our Mission Statement

Grounded in God's Word and empowered by God's Grace, we strive to embody Christ
by glorifying God, by loving unconditionally, and by reaching out in ministry
to all.


If you need additional information, please call our church office at (843)
875-7050 between 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, except
Thursday which is between 9:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m., or you can leave a message
and our staff will return your call during the next business day.





Stallsville UMC
255 Stallsville Road
Summerville, SC 29485

843-875-7050
Office Hours Mon - Fri, 9 - 3



[facebook]



Click here to subscibe to our calendar. [ical]
