Cambridge Christian School

  • About
  • Admissions
  • Academics
  • Athletics
  • Arts
  • Support CCS

  • prospective families
  • current families
  • alumni

MenuMenu

#1 Bright Futures Top Scholar!

#1 Bright Futures Top Scholar!

Graduate and CCS Lifer William Watson ’15 had scores that were the highest of
all schools in Hillsborough County–public, private and IB. Scores were based on
the combination of GPA and SAT/ACT test scores.

About CCS
Class 2A Football State Runner Up!!!

Class 2A Football State Runner Up!!!

Congratulations to the Class 2A Football State Runner Up Lancers!!

Watch on BayNews9
Adventures in Engineering!

Adventures in Engineering!

3D Design and Engineering Basics for Lower School! Students use the 3D computer
aided design software to model the world around them and learn basic
engineering concepts, spatial relations and artistic skills.

More Information
Serving Tampa For Over 50 Years

Serving Tampa For Over 50 Years

Cambridge Christian has been serving Tampa for over 50 years! Take a priority
tour and see for yourself what the Lancer Legacy is all about.

Watch Video
CCS 2015 Property Announcement

CCS 2015 Property Announcement

Today is a momentous day for Cambridge Christian School. The rich history of
this school started with Seminole Presbyterian Church over 50 years ago.

Watch Video
First Chapel 2015

First Chapel 2015

A beloved CCS tradition is our seniors walking in our kindergarteners for the
first Chapel of the year. These faces are the legacy we commit ourselves to
each and every day. Once a Lancer, Always a Lancer!

Watch Video
A Day In The Life

A Day In The Life

Cambridge Christian School has been serving students and families for over 50
years, with a continuing mission to bring glory to God in all we do and to
demonstrate excellence in academics, athletics, and the arts. Take a virtual
tour of our school and meet some of the parents, students and faculty that make
up our Lancer family.

Watch Video
About

About

From its early foundation, Cambridge Christian School sought to reach the
community for Christ through the avenue of education. As an evangelistic
school, Cambridge seeks to raise up future leaders who academically, socially,
and spiritually can serve the local and global community for Christ.

More Information
Admissions

Admissions

At Cambridge Christian School, we work to make the admissions process helpful
for families that are making the vital decision of where best to educate their
children. Our commitment is to partner with our families for the good of their
children and the glory of God.

More Information
Academics

Academics

Welcome to academia at Cambridge Christian School!  Excellence is an overused
word in education, but as reflected in our mission statement, excellence in all
things is the standard to which we aspire.  Specifically, the excellence of
Christ comes to mind.

More Information
Athletics

Athletics

Cambridge Christian School’s athletic program has built a tradition of
sportsmanship and winning. Cambridge Christian is blessed to feature one of the
most comprehensive and successful athletic line-ups in the area.

More Information
Arts

Arts

Cambridge Christian School enriches students’ imaginations through an extensive
fine arts program that offers classes in vocal and instrumental music, theatre
and visual arts.

More Information
Support CCS

Support CCS

Please stand in the gap for Cambridge by supporting the Lancer Annual Giving
Campaign. There are several ways to support this year’s campaign with three
different funds to select or by being an event sponsor!

More Information

Our Mission

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

To glorify God in all that we do; to demonstrate excellence at every level of
academic, athletic and artistic involvement; to develop strength of character;
and to serve the local and global community.

CCS_logo_50_years

Our Accreditations

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

National Council for Private School Accreditation

Southern Association of Colleges and Schools / AdvancEd

Christian Schools of Florida

 

Our Memberships

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Association of Christian Schools International

Southern Baptist Association of Christian Schools

Florida High School Athletic Association

Latest News

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Cambridge Heads to State Championship!

Friday Night was a history making evening for Cambridge Christian School and
our Varsity Football Team.

CLASS 2A DISTRICT CHAMPS!!! —GO LANCERS!!!

Hillsborough Game of the Week: Cambridge Christian 21, Carrollwood Day 12 Jeff
Odom, Times Correspondent LAND O'LAKES — Cambridge…

Calling All Dads

Raising boys to become godly men is NOT EASY – IF we help each other, we can do
it better.

show more…

Lancer Blog

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Changing Through Instructional Technology

Over the past several years, Cambridge Christian School has actively
implemented several instructional technologies in the classroom as a means of
developing fully prepared college-bound students and 21st century learners and
leaders.

Jesus is the Good Shepherd

“I am the good shepherd; the good shepherd lays down His life for the sheep.”

Running with the Horses in 2016

If you have raced with runners and they have worn you out, how can you compete
with the horses?

show more…

A Picture Is Worth A Thousand Words

Let us show you CCS...

  • Our Campus

    Our Campus

    Nov 10, 2013

    Read more
  • Our Students

    Our Students

    Nov 10, 2013

    Read more
  • Our Faculty

    Our Faculty

    Nov 10, 2013

    Read more
  • Our Lancer Lifestyle

    Our Lancer Lifestyle

    Nov 10, 2013

    Read more

Our Family and Friends

Look at what they have to say about CCS...

    When we think of Cambridge, we think of family. Our daughters started at
    Cambridge in kindergarten and preschool and now one is in college and the
    other a junior. They have been blessed to learn what it is like to be part
    of a community that learns together, grows together, believes in each
    other, and strives to glorify God in all areas of life. It is a joy when we
    can see God at work in our children’s lives and in the lives of our
    Cambridge family.

    – The Grove Family

    Our family’s ties to Seminole Presbyterian/Cambridge Christian School run
    long and deep. Two generations have been involved in administration and
    instruction. A third generation has benefitted greatly from its array of
    opportunities in academics, athletics, and fine arts set on a background of
    a Biblical worldview. CCS played an invaluable role in the lives of all six
    of our children. We are thankful to our God that He has kept this school
    close to His heart.

    – The Taylor Family

    I thank God for Seminole Presbyterian (Cambridge). The education that I
    received allowed me to attain my goal of becoming a doctor and maintain the
    Christian values I hope to instill in my beautiful children. Thank you for
    these gifts!

    – Dr. Amy Hessler

    It is said that “it takes a village to raise a child,” and we believe that
    Cambridge Christian School is our village. In this world, it is difficult
    to balance the demands of work, school and family. At CCS, we know that the
    faculty, staff and administrators will nurture our children, ensuring their
    continued growth academically, spiritually, and emotionally. We have been
    part of the Cambridge Christian School for the past 10 1/2 years. I recall
    a moment long ago when we were new to the school, I was walking my then 4
    year old son to his classroom and an upper school student recognized Evan,
    called him by name and said hello! Evan was thrilled and I was so impressed
    by this small gesture; I realized then the importance of relationships and
    how they are valued at CCS! This warmth is felt as soon as you walk onto
    the campus. At Cambridge Christian, each of our children has been
    encouraged, their special gifts celebrated and they have thrived in all
    areas! CCS is their home away from home and we feel extremely blessed to be
    part of the Cambridge Christian family!

    – The Dominguez Family

    We feel very blessed to be part of the Cambridge family and are thankful
    for the many opportunities the school has offered our children. In addition
    to the strong academic program, our children have been able to actively
    participate in sports and fine arts programs, while emphasizing the
    importance of service and Christian fellowship. We are very appreciative of
    the faculty and staff that have provided personal guidance and support
    along the way. It is so refreshing to walk down the halls and know that you
    are not just “a number”. There is a team of teachers and administrators who
    are looking out for our children. Along the way, we have met wonderful
    families and made lifelong friends. We are forever grateful that we made
    the decision to come to Cambridge!

    – The Smelt Family

  • Grove Family
  • Taylor Family
  • Amy Hessler
  • Dominguez Family
  • Smelt Family

Serving Christ through Excellence in Academics, Athletics and Fine Arts


Cambridge Christian School

6101 North Habana Avenue
Tampa, Florida 33614 
phone: (813) 872-6744
fax: (813) 872-6013 
email: info@ccslancers.com

Menu

  • About
  • Admissions
  • Academics
  • Athletics
  • Arts
  • Support CCS

  • School Calendar
  • Parent Resources

Popular

  • Athletics
  • About
  • Admissions
  • School Calendar
  • Tuition

Search for: [                    ] [Search]
Copyright (C) 2014 Cambridge Christian School
