bg image(pbrn9.jpg)

                         Brebeuf - A Giant in Huronia

                                                   by ANGUS J. MACDOUGALL, S.J.
Foreword
     Jean de Brebeuf (1593-1649), one of those justly famous blackrobes of 17th
century New France, came to Canada in 1625 at the age of 32. The whole purpose
of his coming was the evangeliza-tion of the Huron Indians. These formed a
seden-tary Indian nation living in the general area of Georgian Bay, a rather
large inlet of Lake Huron, "the fresh water sea."

Physically strong, psychologically fit for an ex-acting apostolate in the new
world, and deeply imbued with the spirit of Christ and the love of his
neighbor, Brebeuf in time became the first and outstanding apostle of the
mission to Huronia.

Death, or rather an excruciating martyrdom, crowned his heroic and tireless
labors among his beloved Hurons on March 16th, 1649. It took place in
Saint-Ignace II, a small village roughly six miles distant from the remarkable
central mission residence of Ste-Marie (1639-49).

The mission to Huronia began with his arrival and, rather fittingly, came to a
close with his death. What follows tells the story of the years between.

Brebeuf, could be described as an apostle, a brave adventurer, a skilled
writer, a careful ethno-logist, a man of vision, and, more simply, as a saint
and martyr. It all adds up to one thing: he was a giant in the land of Huronia,
and we still need his inspiration in our day.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                                                               
                                                                     Chronology

    1593 March 25, birth of Brebeuf at Conde-sur-Vire.
    1617 November 8, enters the Jesuit Novitiate at Rouen.
    1622 February, ordination to the priesthood at Pontoise.
    1625 April 26, departure from Dieppe for New France. June 19, arrival at
    Quebec.
    1626 July 25, leaves for Huronia.
    1629 June, returns to Quebec. July 19, capitulation of Quebec to Kirke
    brothers; all the missionaries forced to return to France.
    1633 March 23, second voyage to New France; arrival at Quebec on May 23.
    1634 July 7, the second trip to Huronia; arrives there on August 5.
    September 19, establishment of first residence at Ihonatiria (St. Joseph I)
    1635 May 27, finishes his Relation of 1635.
    1636 July 16, completes his Relation of 1636;
    1637 June, foundation of the second mission resi-dence at Ossossane' (La
    Conception).
    1640 November 2 - March 19, 1641, mission to the Neutral nation; Brebeuf
    breaks left clavicle.
    1641 Spring, sent to Quebec and named procura-tor of the Huron mission.
    1644 September 7, Brebeuf returns to Huronia; apostolic work at Ste-Marie,
    St. Ignace I, St. Ignace II and St. Louis.
    1649 March 16, captured at St. Louis by the Iro-quois and put to death at
    St. Ignace II.
    1930 June 29, canonization by Pope Pius XI.
    1940 October 16, Brebeuf and his fellow martyrs proclaimed patrons of
    Canada by Pope Pius II.
    1638 June, erection of third mission residence at Teanaostaiae (St. Joseph
    II). August, Jerome Lalemant replaces Brebeuf as superior of the Huron
    mission; Brebeuf in charge of Teanaostaiae. 
    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Chapter One

The Mission to Huronia
On August 5, 1634, Jean de Bre'beuf, Jesuit mis-sionary, stood alone on the
shore of Penetangui-shene Bay, without food and without shelter. A few moments
earlier, despite his gentle pleadings, his erstwhile Huron companions had left
him to his own musings while they paddled furiously to more distant points. It
was not much of a homecoming for an old friend of the Hurons who had labored so
diligently among them from 1626 to 1629 and who had left them in the deepest
sorrow at his departure.

Echon!
    The trouble was that the village of Toanche', his first home in Huronia,
had moved during his en-forced absence (1629-1634)! But, when at last Brebeuf
reached the new site, a couple of miles distant, his heart must have warmed to
the cry that went up: "Here is Echon (his Indian name) come back!" And how
pleased he must have been to see all the villagers turn out to greet and
welcome him and to call out to him, in true Indian fashion, "What, Echon my
nephew, my brother, my cousin, have you really come back?"

So, after all, it was a reassuring reentry into the lovely land of Huronia for
one who loved the Hurons as brothers and sisters and who ardently longed to
bring them the stirring and saving mes-sage of the gospel.

But, only minutes before, Bre'beuf had passed the very spot where Etienne
Brule, the adventuresome but unruly coureur-de-bois, the previous year, had
been treacherously murdered by this same Bear tribe. This made him reflect a
bit latet "that some day they might well treat us in the same manner." What a
premonition! His death, however, would not be at the hands of his Hurons nor
would it be quite so sudden.

Brebeuf and Huronia
In many ways, Brebeuf was the apostle of Huronia. He spent more time on and in
the service of this mission than any of his brethren and, despite In-dian
resistance and periodic hostility, he endeared himself to the Hurons. The other
missionaries look-ed to him for inspiration and held him in great admiration.

The Hurons themselves called him Echon, prob-ably the Huron equivalent of his
name Jean, and eventually made him a great chief who could hold councils in his
own cabin.

But here we are getting slightly ahead of our story.

When Brebeuf arrived in Huronia in 1634, it was his second visit to this
isolated land. He had first come with Joseph de la Roche Daillon, a Recollet
Father, and Anne de Noue~, another Jesuit, in the summer of 1626. Having
established himself at Toanche, he lived there for three years and mastered the
language so well that Champlain re-marked on his proficiency in it as early as
1629. The Bear clan of the Hurons among whom heworked grew fond of him and were
genuinely saddened by his departure in June of 1629.

The Kirke Brothers
New France, of course, in the 17th century beckoned as an attractive prize for
England, or rather for the London merchants bent on making new gains. So,
during the prolonged French-English hostilities of the period, it was no
surprise when the Kirke brothers, after a few successful naval engagements in
the St. Lawrence river, in which they captured the French supply ships, finally
forced Champlain to surrender Quebec. This happened on July 19, 1629.

Father Enemond Masse, the acting Jesuit supe-rior in Quebec, in the face of the
imminent capitula-tion, had had no choice but to recall Brebeuf from Huronia.
Brebeuf explained as best he could to the puzzled Hurons that he had to return
to Quebec. When they begged him to stay, Brebeuf, as Cham-plain says in his
autobiography, assured them that he would come to them again and would bring
whatever was necessary for teaching them to know God and to serve Him.

Brebeuf and the other Frenchmen who had been with him in Huronia returned to
Quebec in June and were on hand for the actual capitulation in July. Brebeuf
himself was among the missionaries forcibly returned to France by the English
and would not see New France again till 1633.

Paul Le Jeune, in his Relation of 1633, gives a more vivid account of Brebeuf's
break with the Hurons in 1629. "When Father Brebeuf was beginning to make
himself understood, the arrival of the English compelled him to leave these
poor people, who said to him, at his departure: 'Listen, you have told us that
you have a Father in heaven who made all, and that he who did not obey Him was
cast into the flames. We have asked you to instruct us. When you go away, what
shall we do?' "

Le Jeune also speaks of an old chief who worried about losing his soul, without
Brebeuf's help, and who begged him to return to Huronia before he died.

The return to Quebec
It was actually in 1632 that France, by the treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye,
regained possession of New France. Brebeuf managed to return to Quebec with
some other missionaries the following year but had to wait till the early
summer of 1634 be-fore setting out once again for Huronia.

As a matter of fact, the missionaries had been ready to leave with a Huron
flotilla in early August of 1633, but, just before they were to leave, a
commotion arose over the detention of an Indian who had killed a Frenchman.
Rather than risk a serious falling-out between French and Indians, especially
the Algonquins along the Ottawa river, the missionaries decided to put off
their trip to Huronia till the following summer.

Champlain, who had insisted strongly that the Hurons take the three Jesuits and
who had sharply warned the Ottawa Algonquins against any inter-ference or
treachery, finally agreed with the mis-
sionaries not to force the issue any further. The Hurons then departed and the
quarrel subsided.

Brebeuf and his fellow Jesuits simply returned to other work at Quebec and
Three Rivers and patiently looked forward to the early summer of 1634.

The years of preparation
Brebeuf was born on March 25,1593 at Conde-sur-Vire, a small village in Lower
Normandy. We know little of his family background. Some would trace his
ancestry back to William the Conqueror and relate him to St. Louis king of
France. Others connect his family with the English Earls of Arundel.

Of his immediate family we know little or nothing. Ragueneau his biographer
simply says that he was born of good parents. We hear of two nephews, one a
Georges de Brebeuf (1617-61), a minor poet, and a Nicolas de Brebeuf, prior of
a monastery on the outskirts of Caen.

Brebeuf entered the Jesuit Order in 1617, at the age of 24. Because he had
completed his studies in the humanities before entering the Jesuits, after the
usual two years of novitiate training, Brebeuf was sent to teach at the Jesuit
secondary school in Roueu He who later enjoyed the reputation of having a
rugged constitution fell seriously ill in 1620. Then, seemingly because of his
poor health, he studied theology privately and was ordained a priest in 1622.
He then spent the next three years in Rouen in administrative duties.

Although he had expressed earlier a strong desire to work among the Indians of
New France, it was only in April of 1625 that he left Dieppe with a small group
of Jesuits for the new world. He tra-velled with Fathers Charles Lalemant and
E'ne-mond Masse and two lay-brothers Francois Char-ton and Gilbert Burel. The
five of them reached Quebec in June.

The great adventure for the future apostle of Huronia had begun.

Brebeuf spent half of this first year in New France working among the
Montagnais Indians, an Algonquin tribe, in the general region about Quebec. It
was a good introduction for the work to come. His initial labors so impressed
Father Le Jeune that he wrote later: "Father Brebeuf is a man chosen by God for
these lands."

In the summer of 1626, Brebeuf finally made the trip he longed for. But it was
only the influence and cajoling of Champlain that induced the trading Hurons to
take Biebeuf, another Jesuit (De Noel), and Joseph de la Roche Daillon, a
Recollet father, with them on their return trip to Huronia, not that the Hurons
were unacquainted with missionaries in their midst.

The Recollets
In 1615, Father Joseph Le Caron, a Recollet, had reached Huronia in early
August, a few days ahead of Champlain himself, and established himself at a
village called Carhagouha. He spent the next ten months among the Hurons before
returning to Quebec shortly before Champlain who had also wintered among the
Hurons. There was, however, no further missionary activity in Huronia till 1623
when Le Caron returned with Father Nicolas Viel and Brother Gabriel Sagard, two
other Recollets.

Le Caron and Sagard stayed only a year. Sagard, the first historian of Canada,
has left us in Le grand voyage du pays des Hurons an interesting record of his
stay in Huronia. It is to him and Champlain and Brebeuf that we must look for
our key source of information about Huronia and its inhabitants in those first
years of French contact.

Viel left Huronia for Quebec, the following year, 1625 but was apparently
drowned by his unfriendly Huron companions in Riviere des Prairies to the north
of Montreal Island at a spot called today, in his memory, Sault-au-Recollet.

Brebeuf's first visit
The missionary interest in Huronia continued the following year with the
arrival of another Recollet, Daillon, and two Jesuits, de Noue and Brebeuf. The
Jesuits, at the invitation of the Recollets, had entered the mission field of
New France the pre-vious year and would now be closely associated with the
particular mission of Huronia until its tragic end in 1649-50.

De Noue quit the mission in 1627 because of difficulties with the language;
Daillon, in poor health, returned to Quebec in 1628; and Brebeuf seemed ready
to stay on as long as possible.

However, events beyond his control forced his recall to Quebec and his eventual
return to France, in the following year. In anticipation of the surrender of
Quebec to the demands of the Kirke brothers, Enemond Masse asked him to return
to Quebec. Brebeuf obeyed promptly and without demur, as was his wont, and so
left a land and an apostolate he had grown to love with a heavy heart. He also
left his Hurons, as Champlain remarked, in great grief over his departure.

Actually Brebeuf left Huronia without a single adult convert to boast of. Yet
these three years had been profitable ones. For one thing, he had learned the
Huron language so well that Champlain in admiration noted in his diary: "This
good Father had, in fact, a remarkable gift for languages, and would learn and
master them in two or three years more thoroughly than others could do in
twenty." His fellow Jesuit, Paul Ragueneau, would say much the same thing in
1649.

In addition, Brebeuf had studied his Hurons closely, their living habits, their
social structures, their characters, their religious beliefs, their basic
psychology. He also made generous efforts to adapt himself to the customs of
the people. Because of such obvious respect for them and deep interest in them
he had endeared himself to the Hurons, and thus they sincerely regretted seeing
him go away at the end of three years.

In this way, then, Brebeuf, had laid the founda-tions for the Huron mission and
his own future apostolate there.

Back in France
On his enforced return to France in 1629, Brebeuf spent the first year serving
as preacher and con-fessor at Rouen. We can imagine how he must have drawn on
his experiences in Quebec and Huronia to enliven his sermons and stir up in the
hearts of his congregations a deeper sense of fra-ternal concern and Christian
love.

In 1631 Brebeuf was appointed to the Jesuit College in Eu. There he fulfilled a
number of various jobs. In reality, Brebeuf was marking time, waiting for the
moment when he could return to Huronia. With the signing of the treaty of
Saint-Germain-en-Laye the way was clear once again. In the spring of 1633 he
sailed for the new world and arrived at Quebec on the 23rd of May.

This time, Brebeuf had as companions and fel-low missionaries Antoine Daniel,
the future mar-tyr, a dynamic young man with a keen and delight-ful sense of
humor, and Ambroise Davost. Brebeuf became their teacher of the Huron language
and Indian ways and shared with them his zeal and much of his experience. These
new missionaries for Huronia could not have had a better mentor at this time.
Later, Daniel would rival Brebeuf in his mastery of the Huron language and
knowledge of Huron ways.

Chapter Two

The Road to Huronia
Brebeuf, Daniel and Davost, after being forced to cool their heels in the lower
country for a year, fin ally left for Huronia in July 1634. Brebeuf, Daniel and
one other young Frenchman got away on the 7th, but only after a strong
intervention by Monsieur du Plessis Bochard, general of the fleet. In a letter
to France that year, Le Jeune, the mis-sion superior, remarked that Brebeuf and
Daniel had exposed themselves to great suffering, for they had to leave without
a good deal of their baggage and without the means of purchasing the
necessi-ties of life.

Davost had to wait another week for his passage, and the other Frenchmen,
probably two young men and two young boys, were embarked a week later still.

Brebeuf has preserved for us an excellent ac-count of this trip to Huronia in
his Relation of 1635. This whole Relation which he sent to Le Jeune is a mine
of information about the trip, the Hurons and the land of Huronia.  One simply
has to marvel at the direct, forceful and entertaining narrative skill of
Brebeuf.

The trip itself from Three Rivers to Huronia covered roughly 800 miles. The
route followed by Brebeuf and his companions was the Ottawa river route, for
the St. Lawrence river and Lake Ontario passage had been successfully blockaded
by the hostile Iroquois, those "pirates of the fur trade,"bent on destroying
the Huron fur trade and the Hurons themselves.

Details of the journey
Paddling their light bark canoes, for hours at a stretch, the Hurons travelled
up the St. Lawrence from Three Rivers to the point where this great river met
the Ottawa. They then ascended the Ottawa to where it joined, well to the
north, the Mattawa which they followed to Mud Lake. Further along they crossed
large and, at times, rough Lake Nipissing, the region of their friendly allies
the Nipissirinians or Bissirinians, an Algonquin tribe. From the western end of
Lake Nipissing they descended the French river until they came to Georgian Bay,
a rather large inlet of Lake Huron.

Once they had reached Georgian Bay, they were back in home waters and at the
north-northwest boundary of Huronia.

Travelling conditions
This long trip, some 800 miles, was not a smooth one, for the rivers were full
of dangerous rapids and impassable waterfalls. These natural barriers called
for wearisome portages when canoes and equipment had to be laboriously carried
or dragged, often long distances over rugged terrain. On this trip, his second
to the upper country, Brebeuf counted the number of such portages and noted
that the party carried their things thirty-five times and dragged them at least
fifty!

As for their food on the trip, Brebeuf mentioned that this usually consisted of
corn ground somewhat coarsely between two stones. By mixing it with water they
made a kind of gruel. Sometimes they ate a bit of fish caught by chance but
usually it had to be purchased from some Indian tribe along the way.

The Hurons normally made food caches on the way down to Three Rivers, but
occasionally these were missed on the return trip and all had to go hungry. The
missionaries remarked at different times on the ability of the Indians to go
without food for days at a time and still remain cheerful and energetic.

The trip was never a pleasant one, for all had to sleep on the bare earth or on
hard rock, and this after trudging often in water, in mud and through the dark,
entangled forest, where swarms of mosquitoes and black flies made life
completely miserable. At night, the missionaries had to sleep beside the
exhausted Hurons and endure the inevitable stench of sweaty and unwashed
bodies.

Brebeuf also mentioned the long, tiresome silence one was reduced to,
especially when ignorant of the Indian tongue.

The paddling, of course, was gruelling and prolonged, and could last from
shortly after sunrise to sunset. This and the constant portaging left the
unaccustomed European bone weary and exhausted and scarcely made the new day a
welcome one. It was indeed a sobering introduction to the mis-sion land of
Huronia.

Brebeuf described his own experience of 1634 as follows: "To be sure, I was at
times so weary that my body could do no more. But at the sametime my soul was
filled with great happiness as I realized that I was suffering this for God. No
one can know this feeling unless he has experienced it."

Practical instructions
A few years later, in 1637, Brebeuf drew up a list of instructions for Jesuit
missionaries destined to work among the Hurons. These reflect his own true and
tried experience and a special sensitivity to-wards the Indians themselves:

    you must love these Hurons, ransomed by the blood of the Son of God, as
    brothers
    you must never keep the Indians waiting at the time of embarking
    carry a tinder-box or a piece of burning-glass, or both, to make fire for
    them during the day for smoking, and in the evening when it is necessary to
    camp; these little services win their hearts
    try to eat the food they offer you, and eat all you can, for you may not
    eat again for hours
    eat as soon as day breaks, for Indians, when on the road, eat only at the
    rising and the se-ting of the sun
    be prompt in embarking and disembarking and do not carry any water or sand
    into the canoe
    be the least troublesome to the Indians
    do not ask many questions; silence is golden
    bear with their imperfections, and you must try always to be and to appear
    cheerful
    carry with you a half-gross of awls, two or three dozen little folding
    knives (lambettes), a hundred or so fish-hooks, and some plain and fancy
    beads with which to buy fish or other commodities from the nations you
    meet, in order to feast your Indian companions, and he sure to tell them
    from the outset that here is something with which to buy fish
    always carry something during the portages
    do not be ceremonious with the Indians
    do not begin to paddle unless you intend always to paddle
    the Indians will keep later that opinion of you which they have formed
    during the trip
    always show any other Indians you meet on the way a cheerful face and show
    that you readily accept the fatigues of the journey.

Incidental hazards
Brebeuf could have also warned the aspiring mis-sionaries to be ready for
anything, including rough handling and even abandonment along the way. Father
Davost who followed him a week later on the 1634 trip to Huronia suffered a
good deal at the hands of the Hurons. They stole from him, forced him to leave
behind his equipment, and even abandoned him on the Island among the
Algon-quins (Allumette Island). Brebeuf observed in his Relation that when
Davost finally arrived in Huro-nia he was so worn out and dejected that for a
long time he could not get over it.

Other Frenchmen suffered much at the hands of the Hurons on such trips, with
stealing almost being taken for granted! One of the young men who went up that
summer of 1634 took two months to rejoin Brebeuf, and another finally saved
what possessions he had left by threatening his Huron companions with his
firearm.

Brebeuf mentioned incidentally that he could not swim. This was an additional
hazard for him on his journeys over water, and he remarked that on one
dangerous occasion he would probably have lost his life except for the quick
action of the Hurons with him.

Arrival in Huronia
Despite all the difficulties and hazards of the trip, Brebeuf arrived safely in
Huronia on August Sth~ The journey had taken thirty days, a bit longer than
usual. He expressed his appreciation of the Hurons he had travlled with by
saying of them:

"My Indians showed me so much affection and said so many good things about me
to the others that they made all the Hurons we met anxious to embark one of our
people."

We shall recall that at first Brebeuf had difficulty finding his old Huron
friends of 1629, for the original village of Toanche had been moved during his
absence in France. However, he was soon among his friends and caught up in the
practical details of adjusting himself to a fresh start among the Bear tribe of
the Hurons. The other tribes were called the Cord, the Deer and the Rock.

Brebeuf, warmly welcomed by his friends of 1626-29, lodged at first with a
leading Indian, with whom he and the other Fathers and one young Frenchman
remained for a month and a half. During this time they had a new cabin built
for themselves and the others.

Hospitality towards all kinds of people, even complete strangers, was
remarkable among these Hurons. Indeed, they would keep such guests for as long
as they cared to stay, expecting only a shout of thanks when these guests left.
However, from the French they expected some kind of re-muneration, and some
little gift would suffice.

Shortly after his arrival, Brebeuf made the deci-sion to build the
missionaries' cabin in the neigh-boring village of Ihonatiria which promised
better apostolic advantages. They moved to the new site in September, and this
residence, called St. Joseph, would be the centre of the Huron mission till
1637. Brebeuf recounted the story of one Frenchman who made his way to him by
mentioning to the Hurons he met along the way the only two Huron words he knew:
Echon, Brebeuf's Indian name, and Ihonatiria!

Brebeuf's new home
The new house at Ihonatiria, 32 feet long and 16 feet wide, was built along
Indian lines. As dwel-lings went, it was a modest realization, for, as Bre-beuf
said with obvious good humor, "the habita-tions of this country are neither
Louvres nor palaces, nor even like the smallest cottages." Yet, in the eyes of
the Hurons, the mission residence was a huge improvement on their own rather
flimsy structures.

Still the actual comforts were few and far be-tween. Jerome Lalemant, a few
years later, de-scribed the style of living: "A mat upon the ground, or upon a
piece of bark, is your bed; the cabin's fire your candle; the holes through
which the smoke passes, your windows, which are never closed; bent poles,
covered with bark, your walls and your roof, through which the wind enters from
all sides."

Brebeuf mentioned that they had to keep a sharp eye on their Huron visitors
who, he said, had thievish hands and would remove any object they had taken a
fancy to! Paul Le Jeune had noted ear-lier, in his Relation of 1632-33, "to
steal, and not to be discovered, is a sign of superior intelligence among
them."

Le Jeune also added this observation: "I learn that the Hurons consider a man
very clever who can escape the hand of a thief, or who knows how to steal
without being caught. But if he is discovered, you may whip him as much as you
like and he will say nothing. He suffers his punishment patiently, not as a
penalty for his crime, but for his awkwardness in being caught."

Brebeuf tells an amusing story in this regard about the family of Louis de
Ste-Foy, a young Indian who had been educated for a while in France. Louis
helped some of the missionaries explain to members of his own family the
various Christian commandments. When, while explaining the com-mandment not to
steal, Louis mentioned that in France thieves were put to death, his father
asked him whether, when he became chief, he would also put them to death. Louis
answered that if he were to do so the whole country would soon he depopulated,
as it would be necessary to kill everyone, Huron and thief almost being
synonymous!

The "Chief of the Day"
In the house at Ihonatiria the missionaries had a fine clock which struck the
hours. The Hurons never ceased to marvel at it, believing it to be a living
thing. The young Frenchmen, of course, used it to play various tricks on them.
The Hurons, in awe at the clock's movement, referred to it, as the "Chief of
the Day," and, when it sounded the hour, they said it was speaking. They were
also amazed at how messages could be communicated by writing.

Implicit in all this was the Hurons' admiration of the intelligence of the
French. Indeed, they called them Ondaki, a word for "demons."

The land of Huronia
It was after mentioning such details that Brebeuf gave a rough description of
Huronia itself. It was not a large country, for at its greatest width it could
be crossed in three or four days. It had a fine natural situation with a lot of
plains and was well watered with streams, lakes and the large body of water
called the "fresh-water sea" (Lake Huron). Its soil was, in general, rather
sandy and produced, with suitable moisture, a quantity of very good In-dian
corn which supplied the needs not only of the Hurons but also of their
neighbors, the nomadic Algonquins.

Brebeuf also pointed out that there were twenty towns with roughly a population
of 30,000. He mentioned that the Huron language was not too difficult to learn
for one who had a good teacher. He himself, of course, became a master at the
language, as did also others like Daniel, Garnier and Chaumonot. We know from
other sources that at least two of the missionaries, Anne de Noel and Chabanel
the martyr, found it a very difficult language and failed to make any practical
headway in learning it. At least these two would vouch for Brebeuf's statement
that "the Huron language is as different from our European language as heaven
is from the earth."

Chapter Three

Life among the Hurons
Brebeuf's great contribution to the study of the Huron nation was his keen
sense of observation and honesty of expression. He was vividly aware that, in
order to preach the gospel to these Hurons, the missionaries had to understand
them as a people, had to discern and appreciate what consti-tuted their
cultural heritage. And so he questioned them, observed them, lived as closely
as possible with them, and finally wrote about them. As a result, we possess an
excellent account of the social structure and habits of the Huron people.

The power of dreams
Dreams had a profound influence on the Hurons. It was not unusual to find
individuals going to great lengths in order to fulfill the promptings of their
dreams, especially when interpreted by the sorcer-ers. The Relations are full
of instances of the in-fluence of dreams on the Indians.

Brebeuf mentions in his Relation of 1636 that the Hurons had a faith in dreams
that surpassed all belief. If only Christians could follow their divine
inspirations with the same devotion, he added, they would become saints in no
time. For the Hurons the dream was an oracle that had to be acted upon at once.

Some dreams predicted for them future events, others warned them about imminent
misfortunes. The dream could also preside at council meetings. It could
prescribe their feasts, their dances, their songs, their games. Brebeuf refers
to dreams as the principal god of the Hurons.

However, he carefully explains that only the dreams of people of some standing
and credibility, with some past success to their credit, would attract serious
attention. These kind of people, he writes, are careful to distinguish between
false and true dreams. Moreover, when in doubt about the mean-ing or the
application of some dreams, the people consulted interpreters.  These experts
usually mitigated the demands of the dreams. Even at that, says Brebeuf, a
dream can take from them their whole year's provision.

Actually their faith in dreams led the Hurons into countless absurdities. Most
of the dreams dealt with ways and means of chasing away sick-ness, and the
remedies were usually related to a feast, or to a song, or to a dance, or a
game, or to a kind of mania called ononharoia, a "turning the brain upside
down."

This ononharoia is to help those who are mad. Others, on their behalf, visit
cabins and say they have dreamed, and those in the cabins must guess what the
dream is and offer the group various ob-jects until the thing dreamed is
finally guessed! Bre-beuf said that you could see such bands coming out of
cabins loaded down with hatchets, kettles, porce-lain and so much else. After
someone had finally guessed what they were looking for, off these people went
to the woods and cast out, so they said, the madness. It may have been a rather
absurd practice, but the people had to go along with it.
 
The medicine-men
Allied to dreams was the hold of sorcerers or medicine-men upon them. By the
use of their charms some claimed to be able to command the rain and the wind;
others, to predict future events: and others, to find lost objects; and others,
to re-store health. Brebeuf saw the devil at work among these sorcerers. He
also spoke of the Arendewane who, after a feast or a sweat, would undertake to
tell a sick person the seat and nature of his illness and then abandon him.

Brebeuf recounts one instance involving a par-ticularly famous medicine-man by
the name of Tehorenhaegnon. This man, in return for a present of ten hatchets,
and a multitude of feasts, promised to bring a much needed rain. But all his
dreaming, fasting and dancing was to no avail. As Br6beuf remarked, "there fell
not a drop of water." The sorcerer then, in his chagrin, attributed the drought
to the presence of the French and a cross before the door of the missionaries'
residence. As a result, there were a few tense moments.

However, the men and women of Ihonatiria did not resort to this sorcerer but
consulted Brebeuf instead. He gave them eminently practical advice:
"I told them that neither we nor any man could control the rain or the fine
weather; that he who made heaven and earth was alone their master and
distributed them according to his inclination. Pray to him, I urged them."

Actually all turned out very advantageously, for their prayer, says Brebeuf,
seemed to have been answered, as the rain fell soon after, and others
came from neighboring villages to acknowledge the blessing of the rain.

Sorcerers and gifted people in general would always fascinate these people,
notes Brebeuf, for "these peoples greatly admire and esteem those persons who
have any quality that raises them above the common level. Such people they call
oki, the same name they give to demons."

A worker of miracles, he adds, in the spirit of the gospel, would rapidly
convert all these people to the true faith, so impressed are they by wonders of
any kind.

Huron feasts
The Hurons were strongly attached to their feasts. Too much so to Brebeuf's way
of thinking, for these distracted them from more serious thoughts and
supernatural truths, keeping their minds on baser appetites.

The Hurons seemed to celebrate all kinds of feasts: of farewell; of
thanksgiving and collective enjoyment; for singing as well as for eating; and
those for deliverance from a special kind of sick-ness. Such feasts could last
whole days and nights, and people would gorge themselves.

The most important feasts were the singing ones which were provided for on a
lavish scale and fea-tured various kinds of fish along with venison and
bear-meat. Several villages would be invited to at-tend, and, at times, even
the whole country. "In this case," remarks Brebeuf, "the master of the feast
sends to each chief as many sticks as the number of persons he invites from
each village."

Huron dances and games
We are told that the Hurons had twelve different kinds of dances, usually
remedies for sickness. They also played three kinds of games, namely, the games
of crosse, dish, and straw. Crosse was much like our modern la crosse and was
considered a game to help a person regain his health. Dish was played with six
plum-stones, white on one side and black on the other. The object of the game
was usually to succeed in getting all the stones of one color to face the
person who banged the dish against the earth. Other combinations could be
called for and agreed upon. This game too was played to re-store a person's
health, and often village played against village, with much betting on both
sides.

The game of straws, based on straws of varying length and involved with various
numbers and combinations of straws, was another gambling game which often set
village against village and lasted for two and three days at a stretch. The
stakes could be high. Brebeuf tells of an incident involving the son of Chief
Aenons who lost in such a game a beaver robe and a collar of 400 porcelain
beads, an expensive article for an Indian. Too ashamed to face his family after
such a loss, the young man, in despair, hanged himself from a tree.

The gambling itself often led to quarrels, fights and even murders. Naturally,
the missionaries could only deplore its abuses and the folly of it.

Huron mythology
The Hurons had only very vague ideas of their origin. They called the head and
source of their
nation a certain woman by the name of Eataentsic. She had been living above the
heavens in an area much like the terrestrial one, and, one day, while pursuing
her dog who was pursuing a bear, she saw both of them fall into a hole and
disappear. In despair at losing them like this she plunged in after them and so
fell from the sky into the water.

Little by little, so went their tale, the waters dried and earth appeared, and
Eataentsic, who apparently was pregnant, finally came to this island - Huronia
- and was delivered of a daughter. She, in turn, almost at once became pregnant
and later gave birth to two boys. From them the present Hurons were descended.
This account, as we may expect, tends to be somewhat sketchy and vague.

The Hurons believed in a soul which lived on after death, but the soul did not
abandon the body immediately after death. The Hurons told Brebeuf that, when
the body was carried to the grave, the soul walked in front and remained in the
cemetery until the Feast of the Dead. This solemn feast was held about every
twelve years, and, after the cere-mony, the souls left the cemeteries and went
off to a big village that lay toward the setting sun.

It was also clear that the Hurons acknowledged some divinity and had a certain
idea of a creator. However, their religious belief was rather rudi-mentary.
They invoked the sky in almost all their needs and, as we saw, placed great
faith in dreams and in their interpretations.

The dead
Brebeuf tells us of the great reverence and honor which the Hurons showed
towards their dead. No expense was too great in order to pay the dead relative
a fitting farewell. They would dispose of large quantities of robes, hatchets
and porcelain, the actual riches of the country, as if these were really of
little account.

Those dying were aware of this generosity and probably took some consolation
from the thought of this kind of attention. Actually they displayed a seeming
indifference to death. But this was all a part of the great Indian
impassiveness in times of sickness and suffering.

The mourning that followed death was reason-able. Burial usually took place on
the third day and there was a fine meal prepared for the guests. The body was
wrapped in a beaver robe, carried to the cemetery and laid on bark sepulchres
raised above the ground on posts. A few gifts were placed along-side of the
body. Other gifts were then given to the family and to those who had directed
the funeral ceremonies.

The great mourning period lasted only ten days, but the lesser mourning went on
for a year, and during this year it was understood that remarriage was out of
the question.

The Feast of the Dead
Brebeuf has left us a wonderfully descriptive chap-ter dealing with the solemn
Feast of the Dead at which he assisted in the spring of 1636. The Feast itself,
held once every twelve years, abounded in ceremonies, including games for men
and women,
but featured above all a special and prolonged meal.

When the old men and important Hurons of the village or neighborhood had
decided on the time of this Feast, all the bodies had to be transported to the
carefully selected grave site, normally a huge pit capable of holding all the
bodies. Each family had to see to its own dead. The Indians spared themselves
no trouble in going and fetching the bodies from any part of the country. They
would then cover them with the finest robes and bear them on their shoulders to
the site.

On a fine day all proceeded to the particular burial ground, exposed the bodies
of the dead, and, after a suitable mourning, they stripped them of their
remaining flesh, and, after cleaning the bones, wrapped them up in parcels
which were then cover-ed with fine robes. Then, as the day of common burial
drew close, all carried the bones on their backs and the bodies of those who
had died re-cently on litters to the great open pit.

Everything was carefully organized around the pit so that all the Indians could
gather according to families and villages. They placed the corpses on the
bottom of the pit but hung the packages of bones from a light scaffolding
stretched across the pit. They also hung up the various presents which they had
brought, hundreds and hundreds of them.

After a suitable time for display, the presents were distributed in the name of
the dead to certain specified persons. After this ceremony, they cover-ed the
bottom and sides of the pit with beaver skins; in this instance, forty-eight
robes were needed to complete the job. Then the corpses were placed in the pit
along with three large kettles for the use of the "souls."

Finally, on the next day, the packages of bones were emptied into the pit with
great rapidity, accompanied by much shouting, jostling, singing and
lamentation. Brebeuf said it struck him as nothing less than a picture of hell.
At last the robes from the sides were pulled over the bones and corpses, and
then the pit was filled with sand, poles, and wooden stakes. A lot of corn was
also thrown into the pit.

The beaver robes which had contained the bones were then cut into pieces and
thrown among the crowd from the height of the temporary staging.

Brebeuf observed, rather shrewdly, that it was only the wealthy who lost
nothing, or only very little, in this Feast. Those of moderate means and the
poor brought and left their most valuable posessions, out of a desire to appear
as liberal as anyone else. In this way, they often impoverished themselves.

For Brebeuf, the attitude of the Hurons towards their dead indicated their hope
of a future life and made them susceptible to the Christian teaching about the
kingdom of heaven. As he said, the In-dians feared the judgments of God in a
future life and began to esteem more and more the value of Christian baptism,
especially for those in danger of death. And so more and more they offered
their children for instruction in Christianity.

The Huron Councils
In the second part of his Relation for 1636 Brebeuf
has a section that describes the working of the Huron Councils or Assemblies.
These would usual-ly meet in some chief's cabin in a village, or occasionally,
for greater secrecy, in the forest. The head of the Council would be the chief
who had called it. They would meet only to decide more im-portant matters and
would often pass whole nights in discussion.

Those who participated in such Councils had the best places at feasts, were
sure to receive presents and often, because of their influence with the others,
had their palms greased by strangers desir-ing something from the nation.

The Councils were representative enough and allowed for serious deliberations.
Delegates from various villages sat together and would confer pri-vately before
casting their vote. Matters were al-ways decided by a majority vote.

Brebeuf was impressed by the orderliness with which the meetings were
conducted. The gentleness and courtesy of the Hurons in their exchanges and
their prudence and moderation in speech, as well as the wise conduct of the
whole meeting never failed to fill him with astonishment. But he could not help
remarking how some of the Hurons, being born actors, used such occasions to
display their his-trionics to good effect!

Brebeuf himself was later recognized as one of the principal chiefs of his
village, an honor which gave him the right to assemble the Council in the
Jesuit cabin whenever he deemed it opportune.

Even from the rather cursory review we have given here it is apparent that
Brebeuf had a real sense of cultural anthropology. His two lengthy re-ports or
Relations covering the years 1634-36 are indispensable sources of information
and give an accurate picture of the people and milieu that the missionaries had
to face and understand. It is to Brebeuf's credit that he never lost sight of
this con-text in all his apostolic dealings with his beloved Hurons and their
neighbors.

Chapter Four

The Apostle of Huronia
Brebeuf spent practically seven years on the mis-sion in Huronia before he saw
the baptism of the first adult Huron in good health. The missionaries' policy
had been to accept no one unless he were deeply convinced and well instructed.
Now God had sent them this kind of person: Pierre Tsiouen-daentaha, a man of
fifty and of decided standing among the Hurons. The missionaries had prepared
Pierre carefully for this important step, and his conversion to Christianity
caused quite a stir among his fellow Hurons.

This important baptism took place on the feast of the Trinity, June 9, 1637.

In the years that followed, the number of adult conversions among the healthy,
while never striking, nevertheless grew steadily and brought much joy and
satisfaction to the patient, hardworking blackrobes. Two items of the Christian
belief posed special problems for the adult Huron: the Christian attitude
towards sex and the Christian concept of marriage.

However, there was an increasing number of baptisms among the children and most
Indians when dying readily accepted instruction and baptism.

But so often it was just touch and go for the success or failure of the
mission. In October of 1637, the hostility towards the missionaries,
particularly at Ossossane, had grown intense and thedeath of the five Jesuits
there seemed imminent. In a letter about this time, Brebeuf mentioned that
stories were spread about blaming the French and the blackrobes, in particular,
for the cause of all sickness and contagion.

When the Indian hostility reached a peak in October of 1637, Brebeuf wrote a
dramatic letter to his superior at Quebec, Paul Le Jeune. The letter described
the perilous situation of the missionaries, and his four companions appended
their signatures to the letter as an act of resignation to God's will.

The text of this letter is as follows:

    Reverend Father,
    The Peace of Christ!
    We are perhaps on the point of shedding our blood and of sacrificing our
    lives for the ser-vice of our good Master Jesus Christ. It seems that in
    His goodness He wishes to accept this sacrifice of myself in expiation of
    my great and countless offenses, and to crown at this time the past
    services and the great, burning desires of all our good Fathers here. But I
    think it will not turn out so. For one thing, the excess of my former
    misdeeds makes me completely unworthy of so signal a favor. For another, I
    do not believe that the divine goodness will allow His workers to be put to
    death, since by His grace there are al-ready some good people who welcome
    warmly the seed of the gospel, despite the calumnies and persecutions of
    everyone against us.

    Furthermore, I am afraid that the divine justice, seeing the stubbornness
    of most of these Indians in their follies, will not allow quite justly
    these people to succeed in destroying the corporal life of the very ones
    who with all their heart wish and provide the life of their souls.

    Whatever may happen, I can assure you that all our Fathers await the
    outcome of this affair with calm and untroubled spirits. And, for my-self,
    I can tell Your Reverence in all sincerity that I have not had yet the
    slightest apprehen-sion of dying for such a cause. But we are all saddened
    that these poor Indians, by their evil ways, close the door to the gospel
    and to grace.

    Whatever conclusion they may reach and however they treat us, we shall try,
    by the grace of Our Lord, to endure it patiently for His service. It is a
    singular sign of his good-ness to have us bear with something for His love.
    It is now that we esteem belonging to His Company. May He be blessed
    forever to have destined us, from among others better than us, for this
    country to help Him carry His cross.

    In everything, let His holy will be done. if it is His will that we die at
    this moment, what happiness for us! If He wills to keep us for other
    labors, may He also be blessed.

    If you hear that God has crowned our small labors, bless Him, for it is for
    Him we desire to live and die, and it is He who gives us this grace.

    For the rest, if some survive, I have laid down everything they must do. It
    is my view that our Fathers and lay helpers should withdraw and take
    shelter with those whom they will con-sider their better friends. I have
    charged them to bring to Pierre, our first Christian, every-thing that
    pertains to the sacristy, and that they take particular care to put in a
    safe place the dictionary and our other material on the language.

    As for me, if God gives me the grace to go to heaven, I shall pray for
    them, for the poor Hurons, and I shall not forget Your Rever-ence.

    Finally, we beg Your Reverence and our Fathers not to forget us in your
    holy sacrifices and prayers, so that in life and after death God may have
    mercy on us.
     

    We are, all of us, in life and in eternity, Your Reverence's humble and
    affectionate servants in the Lord.
                                                                Jean de Brebeuf
                                                     Francois Joseph le Mercier
                                                              Pierre Chastelain
                                                                 Charles Gamier
                                                                Paul Ragueneau.
            The Residence of La Conception, at Ossossane, this 28th of October.

    P.S. I have left at the Residence of St. Joseph Fathers Pierre Pijart and
    Isaac Jogues in these same sentiments.

    This moment of danger passed. There had been, for this or that missionary,
    and would be, for others, similar tense moments, close brushes with death,
    ever present on this mission.
    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

The trials of an apostle
With the arrival of Jerome Lalemant in 1638, Bre'-beuf was no longer superior
of the mission in Huronia. He moved to the village of Teanaostaiae and took
charge of this mission. In typical fashion, Brebeuf had high praise for his
replacement as superior of the whole mission. In a letter to Father
Vitellesehi, the Superior General of the Jesuits, he said of Lalemant: "So
great is his love and so gentle that it conquers the hearts of us all, and his
excel-lent behavior is for us an incitement to perfection."

At first he was popular and successful with the Hurons at Teanaostaiae~, but
the constant epidemics and increasing hostility of the enemies of the
black-robes turned the people against Bre'beuf and his companions. In April of
1640, Brebeuf and Chaumonot were severally beaten in an uprising. Later that
year the residence had to be abandoned.

In order to spare Brebeuf further humiliation and to free him from the impasse
that had set in -even his very name came to strike fear into the hearts of
Indian children - Lalemant sent him and Chaumonot in November of 1640 on a
special mis-sion to the Neutral nation, so called because of its policy of
maintaining peace with the Hurons and Iroquois on either side of it. But even
here Bre'-beuf's efforts at obtaining good will and of evan-gelization met with
coldness, rejection and even downright hostility. Huron agents had already
pre-judiced the minds of these Indians against Brebeuf and the blackrobes.

So it was a dispirited Brebeuf who in March 1641 had to make the trek back to
Huronia. It seemed that God was trying and purifying His servant. On the return
trip Brebeuf slipped on the ice and broke his left clavicle and, without any
proper medical attention, had to continue the jour-ney in intense pain.

Brebeuf returns to Quebec
It was now obvious that Bre'beuf, the great apostle of Huronia, the man whose
heart beat with such constant love for his Hurons, was no longer a persona
grata in the Huron villages. For the mo-ment, his enemies, or rather the
anti-Christian forces, had gotten the upper hand. The only solu-tion was to
send the Father of the mission back to Quebec.

Accordingly, in the spring of 1641, with heavy heart and deep disappointment
Brebeuf returned to Quebec for a respite and to seek attention for his badly
mended shoulder. But his work for Huronia went on. He was given the demanding
job of procu-rator or supplier of the Huron mission.

Brebeuf threw himself into his new job with great enthusiasm and thoroughness.
He knew exactly the needs of his brethren in Huronia. But even in this new work
disappointment would also be his lot. Twice, in 1642 and 1643, the Iroquois
intercepted his shipments to Huronia and stole everything After the convoy of
1643 fell into the hands of the Iroquois, Brebeuf commented in a letter that
this showed the very bad state of affairs in Canada.

Back to Huronia
After three years of exile, Brebeuf returned to
Huronia in September of 1644. We know it was a moment of great joy for him when
he stepped once again upon the soil of Huronia and took up the final challenge
of this difficult yet attractive aposto-late. To recall the words of Le Jeune a
decade ear-lier, he was a man chosen by God for these lands.

In a way the next few years would be the golden years for the Christian faith
in Huronia. More and more the Hurons listened to their blackrobes, fol-lowed
instructions with rapt attention and then asked for baptism. The numbers of the
baptized increased steadily and by 1647 could be counted in the thousands.

The Iroquois shadow
But the hereditary and relentless enemies of the Hurons were growing bolder and
more powerful. Gradually the Iroquois moved closer to Huronia itself, no longer
being content just to waylay and harass the Huron canoe convoys on the St.
Law-rence.

Jogues would be captured with other Frenchmen on the St. Lawrence in 1642, and
Father Bressani, while on his way to Huronia, was also captured and cruelly
treated by the Iroquois in 1644. Both Jogues and Bressani were rescued later by
the Dutch of New Holland. In 1646, Jogues and his companion Jean de la Lande, a
donne' or lay apostle, were taken prisoner by the Iroquois and summarily put to
death. The following year, 1647, the fear of the Iroquois was so great that no
Huron convoy risked the journey to Three Rivers.

Things were really bad, and the Iroquois sensing ultimate and complete victory
were closing in. Bre beuf, in a letter dated June 2, 1648, mentioned that the
Iroquois both closed the roads and obstructed trade and devastated the region
by frequent mas-sacres.

The fall of Teanaostaiae
Then a huge blow struck Huronia. On July 4, 1648 a large force of Iroquois
surprised and seized Teanaostaiae, a large Huron outpost to the south. Father
Antoine Daniel, like a good pastor, fell defending his flock.

With this key defensive position gone, it now seemed only time before other
destructive attacks would follow. Actually, the Iroquois withdrew for the time
being but they would return the following spring with a large well-armed force
to deal the death blows to an already staggering Huronia.

Huronia 1648
In 1648, Brebeuf and Gabriel Lalemant, nephew of Jerome and a relative newcomer
to the mission, served the mission of Saint-Ignace. Ragueneau, the new mission
superior and much admired by Bre-beuf, tells us that five closely neighboring
villages made up this particular mission.

On June 2nd of this year, Brebeuf wrote in his official letter to Rome that
their work was now bearing much fruit. Conversions had increased greatly and
all the smouldering hostility that pla-gued the missionary efforts for years
had apparently vanished.

Indeed there were signs on all sides that the christianization of Huronia, the
very meaning of the mission to that land, was rapidly taking place. And yet
just when the mission effort was being crowned with success, destruction of the
mission itself was only months away. For the moment, then, it was a blessed yet
ominous calm before the storm.

Ossossane, or La Conception, one of the Bear nation villages evangelized
earlier by Brebeuf, by this time had become a model Christian village. In the
words of Ragueneau, "Men, women and chil-dren there have made so open a
profession of what they wished to be till death, that often neighboring nations
gave them no other name save that of 'the nation of Christians'." Chaumonot,
the last mis-sionary to serve Ossossane before its abandonment in March 1649,
said the Indians called the place "the believing village."

March 1649
Then, on March 15, a war party of some 1,200 well-armed Iroquois arrived
completely undetected at the frontier of Huronia. It was so unsual to be on the
warpath far from home at that time of year. These Iroquois, as a matter of
fact, through clever strategy, had left home in autumn and had hunted
throughout the winter in order to be ready to pounce upon the Hurons in early
spring.

They approached Saint-Ignace during the night of March 15-16 and attacked it
stealthily at day-break from its weak side. Having made a breach in the
palisade they quickly overran the village while the inhabitants were still
asleep and, in this way, took the village with ridiculous ease. 400 Hurons were
lost in this sweep and only 10 Iroquois lost their lives in the sporadic
fighting.

The Iroquois massacred a number of the Hurons, men, women and children, there
and then. Others were made captives, several of whom would be re-served for
"cruelties more terrible than death." Only three men managed to escape, and
these ran almost naked across the snows to break the news to the Indians at
Saint-Louis, a village just a league away. Brebeuf and Gabriel Lalemant were at
Saint-Louis, having just left shortly before the central mission residence of
Ste-Marie.

The capture of Brebeuf and Lalemant
As soon as word of the capture of Saint-Ignace reached Saint-Louis, 500 women
and children fled the village at once, while the men prepared to face the
enemy. They numbered only 80, a pitifully small force to meet the Iroquois
onslaught. Some of these begged the two Fathers to escape while they could,
but, as Ragueneau wrote later, "their zeal could not permit them, and the
salvation of their flock was dearer to them than love for their own lives."

A 1,000 Iroquois arrived at the village before sunrise and launched an attack
immediately. One of the Fathers was at the breach, baptizing the cate-chumens,
the other (likely Brebeuf) giving absolu-tion to the neophytes, and both
encouraging the Hurons to die bravely. The Hurons loved them so much for their
support and encouragement. One Christian Indian rallied another non-Christian
In-dian who was thinking of flight with: "could we ever abandon these good
Fathers who for us have exposed their lives . . . let us die with them."

The Hurons repelled the first assault, and then a second. But on the third
assault the Iroquois broke through the palisade of stakes and the village was
theirs.

At nine o'clock that morning smoke from the burning cabins at Saint-Louis
caught the attention of those at Ste-Marie, just a league distant. Thea two
Christian Indians who had escaped reached Ste-Marie with the distressing news
of its capture and of the seizure of Brebeuf and Lalemant.

Meanwhile at Saint-Louis the cabins were soon burned to the ground and the
prisoners, including Brebeuf and Lalemant, were dragged off to Saint-Ignace
where an Iroquois party had stood guard.

Flushed with victory the Iroquois, later that evening, sent their scouts to
reconnoitre the condi-tion of the fortified residence of Ste-Marie where all
the French had readied themselves for the battle to come. After listening to
the report of their scouts, the Iroquois decided to attack Ste-Marie on the
following morning, the 17th.

A last-ditch stand
However, 300 brave warriors, mostly from La Conception, on hearing the news of
the sacking of Saint-Ignace and Saint-Louis, assembled quickly in front of
Ste-Marie and set themselves in ambush between Ste-Marie and Saint-Louis. When
the van-guard of the Iroquois, about 200 strong, moved against Ste-Marie the
next morning, they were intercepted by these Huron warriors who, after a
violent encounter, chased them back to the smoul-dering remains of Saint-Louis
and there killed or captured them. But the main body of Iroquois, alerted by
this action, rushed to Saint-Louis and finally by sheer weight of numbers
overwhelmed these brave Hurons of whom only a score were left, and these
wounded.

In this fierce engagement, the Iroquois lost heavily: over 100 killed of their
bravest warriors and their chief seriously wounded. Probably dis-couraged by
this costly victory and alarmed at the prospect and rumors of the arrival of
other large Huron relief forces, the Iroquois withdrew from the neighborhood in
haste and confusion. This was March 19, the Feast of St. Joseph, patron of the
mis-sion. The French at Ste-Marie attributed their deliv-erance to the special
protection of this great saint.

In the meantime, the remaining inhabitants of La Conception hearing a rumor -
and a false one, at that - that the Iroquois were moving against them, left
their village during the night and fled across the ice to take refuge in the
distant woods. They never returned to their village.

Destruction of the mission
Other Huron villages were abandoned, one after the other; fifteen all told, and
in the weeks that followed thousands of Hurons had to be cared for at
Ste-Marie. Within two weeks, Ragueneau would write later, "our House of
Ste-Marie has seen itself stripped bare on every side, and the only one which
remained standing in these places of terror, most exposed to the incursions of
the enemy."

The collapse of the mission to Huronia had taken place.
Two months later, the missionaries would destroy and abandon Ste-Marie, their
pride and joy, and they would withdraw to Christian Island, called by the
Jesuits St. Joseph Island.

What took place in the year that followed, until the final withdrawal in June
1650, would only show the inevitable result of this sad collapse.

Chapter Five

Brebeuf, Saint and Martyr
On March 16 and 17 at Saint-Ignace, the jubilant Iroquois turned their wrath
upon many of their captives and especially upon the two blackrobes, unexpected
and welcome prizes!

We know from the Jesuit Relations that the In-dians inflicted the worst kind of
tortures upon those of the enemy they singled out for their "caresses." The
Hurons tortured captured Iroquois warriors with the same thoroughness and
cruelty practised by the Iroquois on their captives. So, in a way, we must not
be surprised that the victorious Iroquois reserved the two French priests,
considered special prisoners indeed, for cruel and agonizing tortures. What
marked the torments of Brebeuf and Lale-mant in a special way was the
particular role of certain renegade Hurons serving with the Iroquois. These
incited the Iroquois against the blackrobes.

Martyrdom
The definition of a Christian martyr is one who is put to death out of hatred
for the faith. Martyrdom is also rooted in the gospel text which says: "A man
can have no greater love than to lay down his life for his friends" (Jo.
15:13). We see all this verified in the suffering and death of Brebeuf and
Lalemant.

We know from various records that Brebeuf and Lalemant had to suffer
excruciating torments. Paul Ragueneau, in his Relation of 1648-49, has left us
a memorable account based on Huron eye-witnesses and on the state of the
missionaries' bodies recovered from the ruins of Saint-Ignace after the sudden
departure of the Iroquois.

Ragueneau's vivid account runs as follows:

    As soon as they were taken captive, they were stripped naked, and some of
    their nails were torn out; and the welcome which they re-ceived upon
    entering the village of St. Ignace was a hailstorm of blows with sticks
    upon their shoulders, their loins, their legs, their breasts, their
    bellies, and their faces - there being no part of their bodies which did
    not then endure its torment.

    Father Jean de Brebeuf, overwhelmed under the burden of these blows, did
    not on that ac-count lose care for his flock; seeing himself surrounded
    with Christians whom he had in-structed, and who were in captivity with
    him, he said to them: "My children, let us lift our eyes to heaven at the
    height of our afflictions; let us remember that God is the witness of our
    sufferings, and will soon be our exceeding great reward. Let us die in this
    faith; and let us hope from his goodness the fulfillment of his promises. I
    have more pity for you than for myself; but sustain with courage the few
    remaining torments. They will end with our lives; the glory which follows
    them will never have an end."

    "Echon," they said to him . . . "our spirits will be in heaven when our
    bodies shall be suffering on earth. Pray to God for us, that he may show us
    mercy; we will invoke him even until death."

    Some Huron infidels - former captives of the Iroquois, naturalized among
    them, and former enemies of the Faith - were irritated by these words, and
    because our Fathers in their cap-tivity had not their tongues captive. They
    cut off the hands of one, and pierce the other with sharp awls and iron
    points; they apply under their armpits and upon their loins hatchets heated
    red in the fire, and put a necklace of these about their necks in such a
    way that all the motions of their bodies gave them a new torture... They
    put about them belts of bark, filled with pitch and resin, to which they
    set fire, which scorched the whole of their bodies.

    . Father Jean de Brebeuf suffered like a rock, insensible to the fires and
    the flames, without uttering any cry, and keeping a pro-found silence,
    which astonished his execu-tioners themselves. No doubt, his heart was then
    reposing in his God. Then, returning to himself, he preached to those
    infidels, and still more to many good Christian captives, who had
    compassion on him.

    His tormentors, indignant at his zeal, in order to hinder him from speaking
    any further of God, slashed his mouth, cut off his nose, and tore off his
    lips. But his blood spoke much more loudly than his lips had done, and, his
    heart not being yet torn out, his tongue did not fail to render him service
    until the last sigh, for blessing God for these torments, and for animating
    the Christians more vigorously than he had ever done.

    In derision of holy baptism. . . those enemies of the faith, conceived the
    idea of baptizing them with boiling water. They poured it over the Fathers'
    bodies in great quantities, two or three times, and more, with biting
    jibes, which accompanied these torments. "We baptize thee," they said, "to
    the end that thou mayest be blessed in heaven; for without proper bap-tism
    one cannot be saved."...
    These were infidel Hurons, former captives of the Iroquois, and, of old,
    enemies of the faith - who, having previously had sufficient in-struction
    for their salvation, impiously abused it - in reality, for the glory of the
    Fathers. But it is to be feared that it was also for their own misfortune.

    . . Their tortures were not of the same duration. Father Jean de Brebeuf
    was at the height of his torments at about three o'clock on the same day of
    the capture, the 16th day of March, and rendered up his soul about four
    o'clock in the afternoon. Father Gabriel Lale mant endured longer, from six
    o'clock in the evening until about nine o'clock the next morning, the 17th
    of March.

    Before their death, both their hearts were torn out, by means of an opening
    above the breast; and their tormentors feasted on them .  While still quite
    full of life, pieces of flesh were removed from their thighs, from the
    calves of their legs, and from their arms - which these executioners placed
    on coals to roast, and ate in their sight.  They had slashed the bodies of
    the Fathers in various parts; and, in order to increase the feeling of
    pain, they had thrust into these wounds red-hot hatchets.
    Father Jean de Brebeuf had had the skin which covered his skull torn away.
    They had cut off his feet and torn the flesh from his thighs, even to the
    bone, and had split, with the blow of a hatchet, one of his jaws in two...

    But let us leave these objects of horror, and these signs of cruelty, since
    one day all those parts will be endowed with an immortal glory, the
    greatness of their torments will be the measure of their happiness, and,
    from now on, they live in the repose of the saints, and will dwell in it
    forever (cf. Thwaites ed., vol.34, with slight modifications).

Ragueneau carefully notes the marks of true Christian martyrdom as evidenced by
(1) the great charity of Brebeuf and Lalemant who exposed themselves to death
on behalf of others; (2) the hatred for the faith and contempt for the name of
God, the powerful incentives which inspired the Iroquois and the renegade
Hurons to inflict so many cruelties. Especially was this manifest in the
baptism with boiling water in derision of the sacra-ment. The Huron infidels,
of course, knew of bap-tism and were familiar with the preaching of the
missionaries.

A real apostle
Brebeuf, says Ragueneau, was chosen by God to be the first apostle to the
Hurons. He had devoted nearly twenty-five years of his life to them, and,
although he had to wait seven years to see his first Huron in good health ask
for baptism, by the time of his death nearly 7,000 had professed christianity.

When he first went to Huronia in the summer of 1626, "he devoured the
difficulties of the languages with a success so felicitous that he seemed to
have been born for these countries." And he adapted himself so well to the
customs of the Hurons and with such ability that he ravished the hearts of this
people and became singularly loved among them.

"For so high an enterprise," adds Ragueneau, "was required an accomplished man,
and especially one of eminent holiness. This is what he did not see in himself,
but what all those who have known him have always admired in him."

Brebeuf the mystic
We know from his writings and from what he told his superiors out of obedience
that Brebeuf had a deeply spiritual life. He experienced visions of the Lord,
usually carrying the cross. And such visions ifiled him with ardent desires to
suffer with Christ. The only complaint he made in the midst of his own constant
and great suffering was that he suffered so little for God.

Brebeuf tried hard to be a man of God in all things. As his friend and
confidant Ragueneau wrote: "This good Father felt himself so inclined to
procure the glory of God, and to have only that in sight, that, more than
eleven years before his death, he bound himself by a vow to do and suffer all
that, during the remainder of his life, he might recognize as requisite to the
greater glory of God - a vow which he renewed every day at the altar, at the
time of the most holy Communion."

We also know from Brebeuf's memoirs that he was possessed of a strong, abiding
desire to die for the glory of God. This prompted him to make an-other vow
never to fail, on his side, in the grace of martyrdom, if the Lord deigned to
offer it to him some day. This is the action of a man of intense faith for whom
indeed Christ is the way, the truth and the life. Half measures will never do
for such men.

It was also part of Brebeuf's humiliation and suffering to experience rejection
by those whom he loved and longed to help. For many years the blackrobes, and
especially Echon, were blamed for the misfortunes of the Hurons. His enemies
pointed the finger at Brebeuf and charged him with the pestilence, the
contagious diseases, the famine and the defeats in battle. Even his name was
used for years to terrify the children. And so his life was threatened more
than once.

But our apostle bore with all this courageously and patiently. He always had
tremendous con-
fidence in God's protective care and drew much strength from prayer to which he
gave much time~ His was the prayer of the heart. He truly relished the eternal
truths and his familiarity with God brought him serenity, love and joy.

We know from others that he slept little and often prayed late into the night.
Sleep occasionally overcame him and he succumbed to it laying down upon the
ground fully clothed as he was with a piece of wood serving as his pillow.

His writings indicate a high state of union with God. He seems to have enjoyed
apparitions of Our Lady, St. Joseph, the angels, and the saints. But he kept
quiet about such experiences which were, in truth, a source of humiliation for
him. Ragueneau assures us that "he guided himself solely by the principles of
faith, through the operations of obe-dience and the light of reason."

A simple greatness
His spirit of obedience was remarkable. He saw God in the person of his
superior and always re-mained extremely docile. He claimed that he was fit only
to obey and that this virtue came naturally to him. He said that being without
great intelligence and great prudence and being incapable of guiding himself,
he had as much pleasure in obeying as a child. "And yet," adds Ragueneau, "he
possessed excellent judgment and a holy prudence." Certainly his conduct of
ordinary affairs was beyond re-proach.

Brebeuf, of course, was unnecessarily hard on himself in appraising his own
particular talents.  Actually he was blessed with great common sense and quite
capable of great things. As a superior, first of the whole Huron mission, and
then of separate mission stations, he performed admirably. Ragueneau, who had
served under him, admired the way he managed things, and noted "his gentleness
which won hearts; his courage, truly generous in enterprise; his long-suffering
in awaiting the mo-ments of God; his patience in suffering everything; and his
zeal."

He was always ready for the humblest and most painful duties. On canoe trips
with the Hurons he always bore the heaviest burdens, paddled from morning to
evening, was the first into the water when there was a need, was the first to
rise, to make the fire and to cook, and the last to retire at night, and this
only after he had attended to his prayers and various devotions. With good
humor and allud-ing to his name, he said he was an ox and sofit only to bear
burdens.

Marked by the cross
To his prayer and charitable service Brebeuf added voluntary mortifications and
penance and vigils. He was always looking for the cross and felt that he shared
so little of it. And yet Ragueneau assures us that his life was one
continuation of crosses and sufferings.

In all the ups and downs of his apostolic career and amid the various
sufferings and personal morti-fications Brebeuf ever displayed remarkable
self-control. Ragueneau, in obvious admiration, men-tions that in the twelve
years he knew Brebeuf he had never seen him either in anger or even in the
appearance of any indignation. Some people made a special effort to annoy him
or disturb this poise, but Brebeuf only smiled and carried on with patience and
mildness. And he made effective use of these qualities to preach the gospel.

One day, says Ragueneau, when someone asked him if he had a horror of death by
fire, Brebeuf answered: "I would fear it, if I contemplated my weakness, for
the sting of a fly would be able to vex my patience. But I hope that God will
always assist me, and, aided by his grace, I no more fear the terrible torments
of the fire than the pricking of a pin." This was borne out by the
extraordinary serenity he showed amid his dreadful torments at Saint-Ignace.

The marks of holiness
For Brebeuf nothing was unimportant in the service of God. He tried to respond
faithfully to all the graces God continued to offer him. He practised a severe
poverty. His chastity was very manly and holy and he always strove to maintain
a great purity of conscience. One might say that his aim was to live out in his
life, as best he could, the spirit of the bea-titudes and the spirit of the
Sermon on the Mount.

Yet, like all the saints, he was so unsure of him-self before God. With
disarming simplicity he wrote on one occasion: "For fear that God should cut me
off at the root, as a fruitless tree, I have prayed him that he still suffer me
to stand, this year; and I have promised him that I would yield him better
fruits than in the past."

He did not fear death, for it meant life with God forever. In his memoirs,
there is a passage written some fifteen years before his actual death. In it he
says: "I feel in me a great desire to die, in order to enjoy God . . . it is in
God alone that my heart rests, and, outside of him, all is naught to me,
ex-cept for him."

Perhaps we should leave to Ragueneau, the chronicler of his life, the final
word. "His death has crowned his life, and perseverance has been the sea of his
holiness. He died at the age of 56 years . . He died while preaching, and
exercising truly apos-tolic offices, and by a death which the first Apostle to
the Hurons deserved. His martyrdom took place on the 16th day of March, 1649."
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

 
