                                Steps to Christ

Foreword: (this Foreword and Contents written January, 2004 by Daniel Winters;
tengoku1@hotmail.com)
        Steps to Christ is probably the best known book of Ellen White. It is
simple and powerful in explaining how to be saved, and being small, has been
mass-produced in the tens of millions, and translated into more languages than
any other Ellen White book.

        With so many "Steps to Christ" on the internet, why did i bother adding
another one? The reason is that this is the original 1892 edition. I have not
found it anywhere else on the net. So what's the difference? A quick look at
the Contents will give the answer. To verify for yourself, the cover and
several pages of the original book have been scanned in, and are available for
viewing at www.earlysda.com

        I scanned this book in directly from the original, so everything is
just like the original, including one mistake - "our ourselves". However, being
in electronic format, i put the Bible quotations at the end of each chapter
instead of at the bottom of each page.

        May we all Repent, Confess, Grow up into Christ, and Rejoice in the
Lord
(^-^).

  Here are 4 scanned in pics of the original book. Clik on each one to see it
                                    bigger.

steps-cover.jpg steps-inside-cover.jpg steps-fleming-revell-contents.jpg steps-first-page.jpg
steps-cover.jpg steps-inside-cover.jpg steps-fleming-revell-contents.jpg steps-first-page.jpg
   160.37 KB           34.21 KB                    57.71 KB                    67.68 KB




                                     STEPS

                                      TO

                                    CHRIST

                                    _______


                                      BY

                               MRS. E. G. WHITE


                                    _______


                          FLEMING H. REVELL COMPANY,
                      CHICAGO: 148 & 150 MADISON STREET.
                       NEW YORK: 30 UNION SQUAOE; EAST.
                     Publishers of Evangelical Literature.
                                     1892





                                   CONTENTS.


_______

 
                         THE SINNER'S NEED OF CHRIST.

 
                                  REPENTANCE.

 
                                  CONFESSION.

 
                                 CONSECRATION.

 
                             FAITH AND ACCEPTANCE.

 
                           THE TEST OF DISCIPLESHIP.

 
                            GROWING UP INTO CHRIST.

 
                            THE WORK AND THE LIFE.

 
                              A KNOWLEDGE OF GOD.

 
                           THE PRIVILEGE OF PRAYER.

 
                            WHAT TO DO WITH DOUBT.

 
                            REJOICING IN THE LORD.





                         THE SINNER'S NEED OF CHRIST.


        Man was originally endowed with noble powers and a well-balanced mind.
He was perfect in his being, and in harmony with God. His thoughts were pure,
his aims holy. But through disobedience his powers were perverted, and
selfishness took the place of love. His nature became so weakened through
transgression that it was impossible for him, in his own strength, to resist
the power of evil. He was made captive by Satan, and would have remained so
forever had not God specially interposed. It was the tempter's purpose to
thwart the divine plan in man's creation, and fill the earth with woe and
desolation. And he would point to all this evil as the result of God's work in
creating man.

        In his sinless state, man held joyful communion with Him "in whom are
hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge."* But after his sin, he could no
longer find joy in holiness, and he sought to hide from the presence of God.
Such is still the condition of the unrenewed heart. It is not in harmony with
God, and finds no joy in communion with him. The sinner could not be happy in
God's presence; he would shrink from the companionship of holy beings. Could he
be permitted to enter heaven, it would have no joy for him. The spirit of
unselfish love that reigns there--every heart responding to the heart of
Infinite Love--would touch no answering chord in his soul. His thoughts, his
interests, his motives,would be alien to those that actuate the sinless
dwellers there. He would be a discordant note in the melody of heaven. Heaven
would be to him a place of torture; he would long to be hidden from him who is
its light, and the center of its joy. It is no arbitrary decree on the part of
God that excludes the wicked from heaven: they are shut out by their own
unfitness for its companionship. The glory of God would be to them a consuming
fire. They would welcome destruction, that they might be hidden from the face
of him who died to redeem them.

        It is impossible for us, of ourselves, to escape from the pit of sin in
which we are sunken. Our hearts are evil, and we can not change them. "Who can
bring a clean thing out of an unclean?--Not one." "The carnal mind is enmity
against God; for it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be."*
Education, culture, the exercise of the will, human effort, all have their
proper sphere, but here they are powerless. They may produce an outward
correctness of behavior, but they can not change the heart; they can not purify
the springs of life. There must be a power working from within, a new life from
above, before men can be changed from sin to holiness. That power is Christ.
His grace alone can quicken the lifeless faculties of the soul, and attract it
to God, to holiness. The Saviour said, "Except a man be born from above,"
unless he shall receive a new heart, new desires, purposes, and motives,
leading to a new life, "he can not see the kingdom of God."* The idea that it
is necessary only to develop the good that exists in man by nature, is a fatal
deception. "The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for
they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they are
spiritually discerned." "Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born
again."* Of Christ it is written, "In him was life, and the life was the light
of men," the only "name under heaven, given among men, whereby we must be
saved."*

        It is not enough to perceive the loving kindness of God, to see the
benevolence, the fatherly tenderness, of his character. It is not enough to
discern the wisdom and justice of his law, to see that it is founded upon the
eternal principle of love. Paul the apostle saw all this when he exclaimed, "I
consent unto the law, that it is good." "The law is holy, and the commandment
holy, and just, and good."* But he added, in the bitterness of his soul-anguish
and despair, "I am carnal, sold under sin." He longed for the purity, the
righteousness, to which in himself he was powerless to attain, and he cried
out, "O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death?"*
Such is the cry that has gone up from burdened hearts in all lands and in all
ages. To all, there is but one answer, "Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh
away the sin of the world."*

        Many are the figures by which the Spirit of God has sought to
illustrate this truth, and make it plain to souls that long to be freed from
the burden of guilt. When, after his sin in deceiving Esau, Jacob fled from his
father's home, he was weighed down with a sense of guilt. Lonely and outcast as
he was, separated from all that had made life dear, the one thought that above
all others pressed upon his soul, was the fear that his sin had cut him off
from God, that he was forsaken of Heaven. In sadness he lay down to rest on the
bare earth, around him only the lonely hills, and above, the heavens bright
with stars. As he slept, a strange light broke upon his vision; and lo, from
the plain on which he lay, vast shadowy stairs seemed to lead upward to the
very gates of heaven, and upon them angels of God were passing up and down;
while from the glory above, the divine voice was heard in a message of comfort
and hope. Thus was made known to Jacob that which met the need and longing of
his soul, a Saviour. With joy and gratitude he saw revealed a way by which he,
a sinner, could be restored to communion with God. The mystic ladder of his
dream represented Jesus, the only medium of communication between God and man.

        This is the same figure to which Christ referred in his conversation
with Nathanael, when he said, "Ye shall see heaven open, and the angels of God
ascending and descending upon the Son of man."* In the apostasy, man alienated
himself from God; earth was cut off from heaven. Across the gulf that lay
between, there could be no communion. But through Christ, earth is again linked
with heaven. With his own merits, Christ has bridged the gulf which sin had
made, so that the ministering angels can hold communion with man. Christ
connects fallen man, in his weakness and helplessness, with the source of
infinite power.

        But in vain are men's dreams of progress, in vain all efforts for the
uplifting of humanity, if they neglect the one source of hope and help for the
fallen race. "Every good gift and every perfect gift"* is from God. There is no
true excellence of character apart from him. And the only way to God is Christ.
He says, "I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life: no man cometh unto the Father
but by me."*

        The heart of God yearns over his earthly children with a love stronger
than death. In giving up his Son, he has poured out to us all heaven in one
gift. The Saviour's life and death and intercession, the ministry of angels,
the pleading of the Spirit, the Father working above and through all, the
unceasing interest of heavenly beings; all are enlisted in behalf of man's
redemption.

        O, let us contemplate the amazing sacrifice that has been made for us!
Let us try to appreciate the labor and energy that heaven is expending to
reclaim the lost, and bring them back to the Father's house. Motives stronger,
and agencies more powerful, could never be brought into operation; the
exceeding rewards for right-doing, the enjoyment of heaven, the society of the
angels, the communion and love of God and his Son, the elevation and extension
of all our powers throughout eternal ages; are these not mighty incentives and
encouragements to urge us to give the heart's loving service to our Creator and
Redeemer?

        And, on the other hand, the judgments of God pronounced against sin,
the inevitable retribution, the degradation of our character, and the final
destruction, are presented in God's word to warn us against the service of
Satan.

        Shall we not regard the mercy of God? What more could he do? Let us
place ourselves in right relation to him who has loved us with amazing love.
Let us avail ourselves of the means provided for us that we may be transformed
into his likeness, and be restored to fellowship with the ministering angels,
to harmony and communion with the Father and the Son.

* Col. 2:3. * Job 14:4; Rom. 8:7. * John 3:3. (margin.) * I.Cor. 2:14; John
3:7. * John 1:4; Acts 4:12. * Rom. 7:16, 12, 14. * Rom. 7:24. (margin.) * John
1:29. * John 1:51. * James 1:17. * John 14:6.

                                                 Go to next chapter: Repentance
                                                                    Back to top
                                                               Back to Contents
                                                     Back to Earlysda home page
                                                  I want to download this book!

