                  A Funeral Oration for the Empress Flacilla



                                      by



                               Gregory of Nyssa



                                       +



                                 Introduction







This funeral oration composed by Gregory of Nyssa which is technically know as
a paramuthetikos logos was delivered upon the death of the empress Flacilla in
385, wife of the Roman emperor Theodosius^(1). In volume 46 of Migne's edition
the text comes after two orations with a similar pattern delivered on behalf of
Bishop Meletius (cols. 852-864) and Pulcheria (cols. 864-877) and before one on
Gregory the Wonderworker (cols. 893-957). Theodosius' adhesion to the orthodox
Christian faith of Nicaea compelled him to spread it in the West, whereas in
the East the heretical doctrine of Arianism had taken hold. Gregory makes brief
reference to this situation towards the end of his oration by saying "the Arian
infidelity and its idolatry is an abomination" (J.489.5-9)^(2). This teaching
insisted that the substance of Jesus Christ was "unlike" or at the very least
"like" the Father's. Theodosius managed to expel Arian clergy from the eastern
capitol, Constantinople, and was responsible for this part of the empire's
revitalization not only through the reorganization of military power but more
pervasively by his advancement of the Nicene Creed and the ideological unity it
entailed.


A principle theme in Gregory's paramuthetikos logos is eusebeia, a difficult
word to translate which is usually rendered "piety" but has deeper significance
as intimating the practice of orthodox Christianity^(3). The emperor Theodosius
married Flacilla around 376-8 who was later instrumental in dissuading her
husband from associating with the Arian bishop Eunomius of Cyzicus since he was
vulnerable of betraying the Nicene faith which she brought with her from the
West to the imperial center in Constantinople^(4). I mention this fact here
since Gregory's oration uses the concept of eusebeia to connote hatred of
Arianism which to orthodox eyes was equated with idolatry. Naturally the
practice of eusebeia implies virtuous living, another fact which the bishop of
Nyssa stresses as following excerpt from Flacilla testifies:


When human nature exceeds its bounds and transcends its usual borders, nature
lends support, that is to say, the Lord of nature, by examples of virtue
(arete) in a female body which surpass almost all bounds where every virtue of
body and soul displays a remarkable phenomenon by providing room for one soul
in one body. (J.478.9-16)






Gregory's admiration for Flacilla's virtues owes much to a public image of
female empresses or Augustae which had already existed. One notable example is
the praise offered by the church historian Eusebius with regard to Helena,
mother of Constantine, "who was celebrated for her pious deeds and for the
towering and wonderful plant that sprang from her"^(5). Although women were
generally barred from exercising the highest imperial authority, an Augusta was
not unprecedented. For example, the first Roman emperor, Augustus, invented it
for his wife Livia, and we see a later instance when Constantine did the same
for his mother, Helena and wife, Fausta.


Although Gregory composed his oration in the tradition of classical consolation
rhetoric, it is also helpful to read it as imperial oratory^(6), for his praise
of Flacilla's virtues owes much to a public image of Augustae that had existed
since Eusebius celebrated Helena as I had mentioned above. Although the bishop
of Nyssa stresses that her eusebeia had served the Church well against Arianism
and championed the homoousian creed of 381, it was primarily put at the service
of fortifying her husband Theodosius' dominion. Despite this, the empress had
free reign in her husband's newly established court to practice that
philanthropia which also served to tighten the bonds between the new imperial
family and people of Constantine. Gregory's somewhat embellished picture of
Flacilla's philanthropia implied that those persons who were installed in
prestigious positions under her husband Theodosius were not totally dependent
upon imperial forbearance. Furthermore, the generosity for which Flacilla
became renowned was an indication that she participated in Theodosius' rule,
although she did not share his absolute authority. Indeed this arrangement was
highly successful because Gregory says that her death struck with great force:
"The present evil is a universal affliction; no single people or nation
laments" (J.477.20-21). In another paramuthetikos logos devoted to the death of
Flacilla's daughter at the age seven or eight, Gregory describes with some
extravagant detail the blow this young girl's death dealt to the people:


Who is like iron which lacks feeling? you must realize that this tender dove
[Pulcheria] adorned with royal beauty has just flown away on a bright wing and
has left behind her youthful prime, having disappeared from our sight. Jealousy
has immediately snatched her from our hands whether we call her a dove or a
tender little flower who not yet had shone with full splendor even though she
has already sparkled...It was clear, brethren, that we experienced a real
tremor which certainly did not mitigate these harsh circumstances. A Homily of
Consolation Concerning Pulcheria, J.462.






I mention the vivid description of this "earthquake" since it reveals a lively
popular attachment to the imperial household, and the same certainly can be
said with regard to Flacilla. We also find the image of a tremor in the
Pulcheria text, a graphic example of how this young girl's death had affected
the general populace:


It was clear, brethren, that we experienced a real tremor which certainly did
not mitigate these harsh circumstances. Neither can the beauty of buildings,
any lifeless object, flowery letters nor the sight of choice stones on the
ground replace her; rather, the radiant dwelling of her own nature is
magnificent in itself because its excels in grace, yet this jolt suddenly
loosens it. (J.462-3)






It should be noted that of the panegyrics composed by Gregory only those
pertaining to Pulcheria, Flacilla and the bishop Meletius may be classified as
logoi paramuthetikoi, whereas the remaining addresses concern persons who have
lived in the more distant past such as St. Stephen, the Martyr Theodorus,
Gregory the Wonderworker and the Forty Martyrs^(7). As Robert Gregg has noted
with regard to the Pulcheria text^(8), one characteristic of this logos
paramuthetikos is to rouse the audience, following the dictum of Menander of
Laodicea (third century) that tragedy's purpose is to stir up the feelings of
the audience by magnifying it^(9). Compare the two texts:


How is it possible to surmount the passions while remaining in nature and not
be constrained by grief at this sight when death draws night not in old age but
in the prime of Life? Eyelids darken the eyes' rays, ruddy complexion becomes
pallid, the mouth is silenced and the blossoming flower of the lips is
darkened, something difficult not only for the parents but for anyone who
happens to behold this sight. Pulcheria, J.464.


Permit me to add something to this Assyrian's [i.e., king Nebuchadnezzar]
injunction that I may proclaim with louder voice the present condition and say
as an actor crying out on stage, "Oh city, people, nations, earth and sea...oh
men in every place, groan as one over your common catastrophe and bewail loudly
that misfortune which afflicts everyone! Flacilla, J.477-8.






Gregory, together with his brother Basil and his friend Gregory of Nazianzus,
sought to integrate the Hellenistic culture in which they were trained with the
newly emerged Christian faith. Although each Cappadocian took a different
approach, they are all characterized by this tension between integration and
detachment^(10), an equilibrium evident in, for example, Gregory of Nyssa's
funeral orations:


What takes their place [i.e., passions]? Detachment (apatheia), blessedness,
alienation from every evil, fellowship with the angels, contemplation of
invisible reality and participation (metousia) in God; all these attributes
have no end. With this in mind it behooves us not to mourn the empress when we
learn that she has exchanged these for what is better. Flacilla, J.486.12-16.






This theme of apatheia which runs through much of Gregory's writings connotes
separation of soul and body at death which, as Gregg indicates^(11), is not
specifically Christian but has roots in non-Christian authors such as Plato,
Plutarch, Cicero and Senaca. We have two references which expresses a longing
for separation of the soul from the body's prison and make use of Ps 141.8 to
articulate this desire:


Does he [David] not groan in this life? Does he not say that he has not guarded
it? Does he not cry out to the Lord, "Lead my soul out of this prison? [Ps
141.9]" Is not his life vexed with time's extension when saying "Woe to me
because my exile is prolonged" [Ps 119.5]? Did not the holy ones know how to
discern good from evil and thus reckon the soul's exist from the body as
better? Flacilla, J.484.11-17.


In the holy psalms I have often heard David desiring freedom from such demands:
"My soul longs and yearns for the courts of the Lord" [Ps 83.3], and "Lead my
soul out of this prison" [Ps 141.8]. Similarly Jeremiah judges as cursed that
day when sentence was passed on him [cf. Jer 20.14-18]. We can find many such
examples in divine Scripture of the ancient holy men who had great aspirations
in the present life while being weighed down by fleshly existence. Pulcheria,
J.467.






Before offering some concluding remarks about the theme of blessedness which
Gregory offers his listeners of the Flacilla oration, it is helpful to briefly
examine those elements which hinder our pursuit of blessedness. In Gregory's
Concerning Those Who Have Died he asks the pertinent question, "What
characterizes true goodness" (J.29)? After describing what blessedness is not,
several pages later he suggests a theme developed at considerable length in his
Commentary on Ecclesiastes^(12) about the "vanity" of earthy pursuits. These
quests are reflected in the natural fluctuations of created reality as revealed
by two excerpts:


Our body is animated by the reciprocal action of fullness and emptiness, that
is, eating and drinking, inhaling and exhaling, and cannot survive without this
alteration. If it were to cease our life would come to an end because such
reciprocal actions would no longer succeed each other and fail to animate our
[human] nature. This activity ceases when nothing enters nor exits the dead;
instead, the body's natural elements dissolve and disintegrate. Those Who Have
Died, J.31-2.


Is there anything more miserable like ourselves who are beasts destined for
toil with hidden eyes, who always walk in circles and return to the same place?
Shall I tell you about this circuit? It consists in hunger, satisfaction sleep,
wakefulness, movement and satiety. These always succeed each other, and we
never pause while following this cycle until we are free from such toil.
Flacilla, J.485.6-13.






Such miseries are typical of that "alien residence" (allotrios oikos, l.14) in
which Job found himself and whom Gregory employs as an example of how we should
conduct ourselves in this impermanent existence. Compare the following two
texts in which Job is mentioned:


"What is corruptible must put on incorruptibility, and what is mortal must put
on immortality" [1Cor 15.53]. Job considers this and is heartened by the good
fate of his children; although young, they have shed the chains of life. A
two-fold sign promised by God lies in store for what has been snatched away; a
two-fold restitution not only of children but ten take their place. Since men's
souls are eternal, two compensations are given: the progeny of children is
included along with their parents as all living to God, and the presence of
death poses no hindrance for those who have died. Pulcheria, J.471-2.


The story of Job (Job 1.7+ & 2.1+) teaches us that mankind's harmful adversary
served to make him pleasing; by proving Job, he was found sincere, just and
blameless. Similarly, the adversary looks with evil intent upon [the martyrs']
good deeds and struggles. He also takes into account the mature demeanor
present in the prime of their youth. He sees sound bodies adorned with
restraint, the armed chorus leading them in battle array to God, a beautiful
sight to behold. Homily on the Forty Martyrs, J.148.








Gregory closes his paramuthetikos logos on behalf of the empress Flacilla by
locating her in the heavenly kingdom, Abraham's bosom, a symbol of eternal rest
which Christ himself had used [cf. Lk 16.22]. Furthermore, Gregory implies a
return to paradise from which our first parents were expelled when referring to
"flowing waters." By way of conclusion, I compare two texts which deal with
this theme:


In this faith he grows, flourishes, is disposed by the Spirit, is received into
the Father's bosom by Abraham's faith at the fountain of paradise (its stream
does not reach infidels), is under the shadow of the tree of life planted by
flowing waters which we are worthy to receive in Christ Jesus our Lord, to whom
be glory forever and ever. Amen. Flacilla, J.489.15-490.2.


If anyone happened to be near the fountain which scripture says [Gen 2.6] rose
from the earth at the beginning of creation and was large enough to water the
earth's surface, he would approach it marveling at the endless stream of water
gushing forth and bubbling out. Never could he say that he had seen all the
water...In the same way, the person looking at the divine, invisible beauty
will always discover it anew since he will see it as something newer and more
wondrous in comparison to what he had already comprehended. Commentary on the
Song of Songs, J.321.






Gregory focuses upon this theme of continuous growth in God in many places
within his writings, but its explicit mention is absent from Flacilla. He
certainly does not wish to disregard this topic, for it is implied in the text
when speaking of that yearning for heavenly existence. However, due to the
sorrowful context of the empress' death, it was important that he suggest only
those elements which were able to offer some immediate comfort to the mourners.
Because Gregory's intent is to comfort so many persons who have benefited from
Flacilla's philanthropia, it is only natural that he allude to Christ's
resurrection. Interestingly he speaks of it after making some fine remarks on
the identity of Christ with members of his Church (cf. Mt 25.31-46)^(13), an
allusion to the magnanimity the empress Flacilla was able to offer. However,
the bishop of Nyssa mentions the resurrection fleetingly but suggests its fruit
under image of paradise at the very end of his address:


But praise does not stop here [i.e., the reference to the text of Mt 25.31-46];
it advances further for those who do right in accord with what is commanded.
Persons who recognize in themselves the grace of the resurrection are dead to
the law, have received acquittal with regard to death and are again summoned to
life. Flacilla, J.487.21-5.






                                    * * * *



A note regarding the text, A Funeral Oration for the Empress Flacilla: The
critical edition by Andreas Spira may be found in Gregorii Nysseni: Sermons,
Pars Prior, vol. ix (E.J. Brill, Leiden, 1967), pp.475-90. I refer to this
critical text within my translation by the letter "J." The critical text of
Gregory's works began under the direction of Werner Jaeger and has continued
after his death. I also refer to the text by J.P. Migne in Patrologia Graeca
(Paris, 1858), cols. 877-92, by including the letter "M" within the
translation.

                                       +























                                   The Text



[M.877 & J.475] The faithful, prudent servant (I open my remarks with reference
to the divine Gospel, cf. Mt 24.45) whom the Lord has set over his household to
give in due time a measure of corn, had earlier passed an accurate sentence
since no address had been given, and having correctly perceived the greatness
of this occasion, he decided to honor grief by silence. I do not know if he
speaks a second time to the Church in the present assembly, thereby rescinding
his own vote against the sentence he had already passed. I have great
admiration for the teacher's prudence in many things and have special esteem
for his silence at this time. To me silence (sige) seems a suitable remedy for
those in mourning; it is an occasion for the soul to express sorrow through
stillness (hesuchia). Should anyone [M.880] incite the soul with passionate,
inflammatory remarks, [J.476] the wound of sorrow becomes more wretched by the
recollection of sufferings just as though it had been pricked by thorns.


Without being rash I will attempt to correct the teacher, perhaps passing
sentence on our present silence, and proceed to give an address which hopefully
will not cause distress when you hear it. It is not yet time for the mind to be
accustomed to evil while passion is still young in the soul (grief always
follows this pattern) and our hearts are troubled like the sea which swells
like a storm, having been roused from the depths while our thoughts seeth at
the recollection of evils. Since this tumult brings instability to the soul,
how can I impart consoling words in a worthy fashion when passions of evil
assail you? Although I am summoned to offer words of persuasion, I do not know
how to present them in a suitable manner since I cannot fathom the teacher's
intention. Does someone wish to freely express grief and move the Church to
tears by more ardent words? If a person considers these matters, I believe that
he will follow this through. In order to enjoy anything good we must keep in
mind sorrowful occasions because as Ecclesiastes counsels, "There is a time for
laughter and a time for weeping" (Eccl 3.4).


These matters instruct us that the soul must accommodate itself to present
reality; it endures circumstances as though they were flowing, that is, it is
glad at the time for showing cheerfulness and changes joy into dejection. It
behooves one to change [J.477] gladness to tears, for just as laughter is a
sign of inner joy, so grief in the heart clearly reveals the soul's wounds as
tears of blood. The Proverbs of Solomon say, "A glad heart makes a cheerful
countenance, but by sorrow of heart the spirit is broken" (Prov 15.13). Thus
when the heart is gloomy its expression reveals this state. We can find words
which the great Jeremiah uttered in sorrow over the Israelite's misfortune;
rather, those words which were uttered long ago may be used to recall grief.
Although Job had spoken about adversities, what advantage has just one house in
exchange for sufferings which are so easy to number? If you recall large scale
misfortunes such as earthquakes, wars, floods, yawning chasms, they are
insignificant in comparison to the present. Why is this so? Because war does
not plague the entire world; if a certain area is afflicted by war, another
region remains at peace. Again, if a lightening bolt hits a particular area,
water [M.881] causes an inundation or a chasm swallows everything up.


The present evil is a universal affliction; no single people or nation laments
but joins with Nebuchadnezzar who said to his servants, "I speak to you,
people, tribes and languages" (Dan 3.4). Permit me to add something to this
Assyrian's injunction that I may proclaim with [J.478] louder voice the present
condition and say as an actor crying out on stage, "Oh city, people, nations,
earth and sea on which boats sail, oh all inhabited regions where the imperial
scepter rules, oh men in every place, groan as one over your common catastrophe
and bewail loudly that misfortune which afflicts everyone!" When human nature
exceeds its bounds and transcends its usual borders, nature lends supports,
that is to say, the Lord of nature, by examples of virtue in a female body
which surpass almost all bounds where every virtue of body and soul displays a
remarkable phenomenon by providing room for one soul in one body. So that the
good fortune of age might be revealed to everyone, [human nature] is lead to
the kingdom's lofty throne where like the sun in lofty dignity it grasps the
entire world by virtues' rays.


The divine decree which extends over the entire world imparts a common blessing
and submission to the kingdom so that as Scripture says, she [Eve] might help
[J.479] him [Adam] in every good endeavor [cf. Gen 2.18]. If this is an
opportunity for kindness and concurs with the good or is attained, then both
share a yoke which consists of tenderness. We have an entire host of witnesses
who came earlier and confirm what we now hear by the proclamation of truth. If
you seek piety, it applies to them equally; if it is providence, justice or any
other pursuit concerning the good, all contribute to the struggle where
everyone attains victory in good deeds and no one is inferior. Both share the
same gift: a prize of virtue is offered to the whole earth; the supremacy and
good substance of earth and sea is considered as small. It supplies benefits to
everyone, keeps guard and looks out for each other. Words cannot (What beauty
which transcends appearances resembles it? Anything visible suffices for those
in their youth) describe it because no carefully wrought image exists and
anything written or fashioned is defective with regard to the truth.


[M.884] Up to this point I have given examples and will proceed with more as
follows. I see how important it is to cry out, and you reveal to me [J.480] the
reason for this unsuitable commotion. Oh Thrace, your very name makes us take
flight! Oh unfortunate people, you who are familiar with disasters were the
first to be laid waste in war by fire during the barbarian invasions and now
are burdened with a supreme misfortune. Your good is snatched away, people are
jealous over the kingdom, the whole world suffers shipwreck and having been
submersed by the assault of waves, we sink to the very depths! Oh terrible
exile which does not know the way home! Oh bitter waters which lack no springs!
Oh place of harm which people call desolate! (I understand that their native
tongue aptly calls their country Skotoume). There the lamp goes faint, light is
quenched and rays of virtue are forgotten. The kingdom's beauty comes to ruin
together with the rule of morality which is the image of kindness or better, is
its archetype. The ideal of marriage is forgotten, the virtue of prudence is
anathema along with easy access to dignity; tenderness and its attendant lofty
meekness is unknown, and remorse is absent which acts as harmony to effect good
behavior. Zeal for the faith has departed, including the Church's column which
adorns the altars, the wealth of the poor and a helping hand which offers one
harbor for those afflicted. Let virginity mourn, widowhood wail and orphans
grieve because they lack what they are accustomed to have.


What reason do I have for distinguishing between various types of afflictions?
Let every age groan and emit a deep sigh [J.481] from the heart. Let the
priesthood wail because jealousy has despoiled its adornment. Are we courageous
enough to quote the prophet who says, "Oh God, why do you cast us off forever?
Why are you angry with the sheep of our pasture" [Ps 74.1]? For whose sins do
we make recompense? On whose behalf are we lashed with one scourge after
another? Is it simply by chance that a multitude of heretics pronounce a
sentence of impiety against us? Observe that in a short time such misfortunes
afflicted us; we have not yet recovered from the first blow nor have we whipped
the tears from our eyes when a calamity assaults us yet again. Then we lamented
the youthful, tender blossom which developed into a young, flourishing shoot in
whose beauty many put their hopes; now its good which was once anticipated is
flourishing but has now met with danger.


Tell me, brethren, am I speaking irrationally with regard to this misfortune?
As the Apostle says, our creation is groaning with evil [cf. Rom 8.22]. I
remind you of what transpired and I know many things which can be expressed in
words. When the empress veiled in gold and purple is carried into the city (she
is borne upon a litter) and people of every rank and age rush out, they marvel
at this sight visible to all, enthusiastically following on foot in a great
throng and giving vent to grief (You certainly know that clouds darken the
sun's rays so that it is not by chance that the empress enters the city in
triumphal procession lacking the form of pure light; neither is she in a
chariot nor in a wagon set in gold adorned with royal ornaments with attendants
but is concealed in a coffin. Her form is hidden from view by that somber veil
which creates such a terrible, pitiful sight and makes anyone nearby burst out
in tears. The people assembled together, that is, both strangers and residents,
and do not remain silent but receive her entry with loud wailing). Then the air
was sullen as though some had cast a garment of sorrow over it. However, clouds
shed tender drops of tears which they freely released at such a tragedy. Are
these observations folly and not worthy of mention? If creation behaved like
this by offering a sign, then it is not creation but its Lord through whom the
death of a regal person was proclaimed. It is said that "the death of his
saints is honorable in Lord's sight" [Ps 115.6]. I have seen another more
admirable sight, namely, two rainstorms, one from the sky and the other
consisting of tears flowing to the ground. The one coming from eyes was of no
less account than the one from clouds. In countless instances there was not a
single eye which did not moisten the earth by teardrops.


Perhaps we have not correctly surmised the teacher's mind and have spoken more
than necessary for those who are downcast. [J.483] Indeed he wishes us to heed
the matter rather than to be sad, whereas we have done the opposite much like a
doctor who not only alleviates an injury but applies remedies to an afflicted
patient. Just as oiled is poured upon a swollen wound, so does the evangelical
medicine mix oil with tart wine [cf. Lk 10.34]. Let us now offer you through
Scripture the ability to receive the flask of oil as far as possible, thereby
changing grief into consolation. But I tend to believe anything even if it
should be incredible; brethren, the good which we seek exists and is immortal.
Rather, I have said less about the truth, for not only is it true but holds a
preeminent place among anything which is lofty. Do you seek the empress? She
has gone to royal palaces. But do you desire [M.888] to know this with the eye?
You are not allowed to view the empress as a busybody. A fearful guard of
soldiers stands about her; their weapons are not made of iron, but they are
armed with flashing swords, a sight which men cannot endure to behold. The
empress' dwelling is in secret; although you may observe this sight [J.484]
with the body [cf. Dan 8.16-18, Is 6.1, Ezk 1.1+], you cannot otherwise enter
the empress' inner chamber unless divested of the body [cf. Heb 10.20].


Do you think that corporeal existence is better? Let the divine Apostle teach
you about participating in the hidden mysteries of paradise [2Cor 12.2-4]. What
does he say about the common life of men? "Wretched man that I am! Who will
rescue me from this body of death" [Rom 7.24]? What is he saying here? "It is
much better for me to be dissolved and be with Christ" [Phl 1.23]. What does
the great David say who was adorned with such power and had access to all types
of pleasures? Does he not groan in this life? Does he not say that he has not
guarded it? Does he not cry out to the Lord, "Lead my soul out of this prison"
[Ps 141.8]? Is not his life vexed with time's extension when saying "Woe to me
because my exile is prolonged" [Ps 119.5]? Did not the holy ones know how to
discern good from evil and thus reckon the soul's exit from the body as better?
Tell me, what is the good which you see in this life? We judge life by what we
consider. I do not quote for you the prophet's words, "All flesh is grass" [Is
40.6] because although that verse considers the misery of our [human] nature,
grass appears better. How is this so? Grass lacks sensation, whereas our body
which has all types of odors which are of no value is subject to corruption.
[J.485] Is not what the stomach always consumes more disgusting? Do you not
know anything more unpleasant than the stomach which continuously exacts
tribute and seeks payment each day? Is there anything more miserable like
ourselves who are beasts destined for toil with hidden eyes, who always walk in
circles and return to the same place? Shall I tell you about this circuit? It
consists in hunger, satisfaction, sleep, wakefulness, movement and satiety.
These always succeed each other, and we never pause while following this cycle
until we are free from such toil. Solomon aptly calls this a deep pit and life
an exile [cf. Prov 23.27]. Indeed it is an alien residence, not ours, because
it is [M.889] not in our power to have what we wish or desire; we enter it and
do not and go out as we do not know. You will understand the symbol of a pit if
you reject desire as insatiable. Do you see how men continuously multiply for
themselves honors, power, glory and other such things? But what is cast flows
and does not remain with the person who cast it. Anyone who always strive after
zeal glory, power and honor has an unfilled pit of desire. What about avarice?
[J.486] Is not the pit's bottom punctured, empties out can and never be filled
like the entire ocean?


What is grievous if blessedness has no share in life's evils and passes over to
incorruptible life with a pure soul as if he had rejected the body's filth? The
soul has no part in deception, does not believe in slander, does not yield to
flattery and keeps away from lies. It is withdrawn from pleasure and grief,
fear and courage, deficiency and abundance, slavery and lordship, and keeps its
distance from every irregularity in this life. As the prophet says, it flees
from there [cf. Is 35.10, 51.11], that is, from grief, sorrow and groaning.
What takes their place? Detachment, blessedness, alienation from every evil,
fellowship with the angels, contemplation of invisible reality and
participation in God; all these attributes have no end [cf. Rom 14.17]. With
this in mind it behooves us not to mourn the empress when we learn that she has
exchanged these for what is better. She forsakes the earthly kingdom but
receives the heavenly one [cf. Mt 3.2]; she forsakes a crown of jewels [cf. 1Pt
5.4] but is crowned with [J.487] glory; takes off her purple dress but puts on
Christ [cf. Rom 13.14, Gal 3.27]. Truly this is the garment which befits royal
dignity! I know about the purple robe stained with the blood of sea shells,
however, the purple blood of Christ radiates with what is above [cf. Rev 7.14].
You certainly can see how different is this garment!


If you wish to be persuaded by these words then read the Gospel: "Come, blessed
of my father" (the judge is speaking here about the righteous), "inherit the
kingdom which has been prepared for you" [Mt 25.34]. Prepared by whom? It says
that you have prepared them earlier through deeds. How did he accomplish this?
"I was hungry, thirsty, a strange, naked and was in prison. As long as you have
done this for one of the least of these, you did it to me" [Mt 25.35]. Should a
friend manifest concern for the king through these actions, you will be
numbered--if such a thing is possible--and covered, nourished at his great
right hand; instead of being shut up in prison, you are destined for release.
Because a visit to those who are imprisoned welcomes the king, then freedom
from retribution is worthy of greater honor if there is anything more noble for
a king. But praise does not stop here; it advances further [M.892] for those
who do right in accord with what is commanded. Persons who recognize in
themselves the grace of the resurrection are dead to the law, have received
acquittal with regard to death are again summed to life. Confirmation of these
words can be seen in their eyes. [J.488] You have observed a youth standing by
the altar who has rejected salvation. You have seen a woman grieving at her
brother's condemnation. You have heard the good news proclaimed to the Church
so that by the empress's memory the sullen lot of death might be transformed
into life. Is that all? How do we obtain a spirit of humility which Scripture
says is more honorable when done in conjunction with virtue [cf. Mt 18.4]? Upon
submission to the great king's rule to whom nations surrender and to whom the
earth and sea bring presents from every inhabited place, that person has not
yielded to pride where one always attends to oneself and disregards what does
not concern him. Therefore the inheritor of blessedness has procured true
loftiness by an appropriate humility. Let me say something with regard to
marital love. When this corporeal union terminates and assets which had been
accumulated are divided, how is distribution made? Although the father leaves
behind three sons (for they are his crown) so that they might champion [J.489]
the kingdom, he allows only the daughter inherit it. You see how reasonable and
considerate he is with regard to such possessions by leaving the greater part
to a man.


But I am obliged to continue a bit more in order to conclude my words. Hatred
of idols is common to all who share the faith, but the Arian infidelity and its
idolatry is an abomination. They consider the divinity to be in creation and do
not believe the material from which such idols are fashioned as blasphemous,
thereby considering it as suitable for worship. He who adores a creature in
name of Christ is an idolater. Upon learning that God is not something new, he
adores one divinity which is glorified in the Father and Son and Holy Spirit.
In this faith he grows, flourishes, is disposed by the Spirit, is received into
the Father's bosom by Abraham's faith at the fountain of paradise [cf. Lk
16.22] (its stream does not reach infidels), is under the shadow of the tree of
life planted by flowing [J.490] waters which we are worthy to receive in Christ
Jesus our Lord, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen.


                                    + end +

1. Jean Danielou has established the oration's as "peut-etre le 14 septembre"
(cf. the article La Chronologie des Sermons de Gregoire de Nysse in Revue des
Sciences Religieuses #29 (Paris, 1955), p.364), a fact disputed by Jean
Bernardi: "La succession des evenements peut etre reconstituee de la facon
suivant: 25 juillet 385, mort de Pucherie [Flacilla's daughter]; dans le
courant d'aout, depart de Flaccilla pour la Thrace; 25 aout, oraison funebre de
Pulcherie; 14 septembre, mort de Flaccilla a Scotoumin; fin septembre,
funerailles de l'imperatrice a Constantinople; 14 octobre, oraison funebre de
Flaccilla." La Predication des Peres Cappadociens (Paris, 1968), p.320,
footnote #60.

2. Also refer to the brief allusion, J.489.18: "Its [paradise] stream does not
reach infidels."

3. For a detailed study of eusebeia, refer to an article by Javier Ibanez
entitled Naturaleza de la eusebeia en Gregorio de Nisa in Gregor von Nyssa und
die Philosophie (Leiden,1976), pp.261-77.

4. For a more detailed historical background to this period, refer to
Theodosian Empresses: Women and Imperial Dominion in Late Antiquity, especially
pp.1-47, by Kenneth G. Holum (Berkeley, Ca, 1982).

5. Theodosian Empresses, p.31.

6. Cf. Die Regeln Menanders fur die Leichenrede in ihrer Tradition dargestellt,
herausgeben, Ubersetzt und Kommentiert by J. Soffel in Beitrage zur klassichen
Philologie, #57, (Meisenheim am Glan, 1974) pp. 82-9 and Rhetorik und Theologie
in den Grabreden Gregors von Nyssa by A. Spira in Studia Patristica #9 (Berlin,
1966), pp. 106-14.

7. Johannes Bauer notes that the orations in honor of Ephraem and Gregory's
brother Basil are classified under the heading of epitaphios logos: Die
Trostreden des Gregorius von Nyssa in ihrem Verhaltnis zur artiken Rhetorik
(Marburg, 1892), pp.30-1.

8. Consolation Philosophy: Greek and Christian Paideia in Basil and the Two
Gregories (Cambridge, Ma, 1975), p.68.

9. Again refer to Gregg's book, p.63, where he outlines Menander's for classes
of orations or eulogies:

1: to katharon egkomion: a simple panegyric not delivered in connection with a
tragedy.

2: ho epitaphios logos: related to laments.

3: he monodia: indulgence by both deliverer and audience in lamentation and
pity.

4: ho paramuthikos logos: when theme of consolation is added with elements
taken from other kinds of encomia.

10. "Christianity through them [the two Gregories and Basil] now emerges as the
heir to everything in the Greek tradition that seemed worthy of survival."
Werner Jaeger, Early Christianity and Greek Paideia (Cambridge, Ma, 1961)
p.138.

11. Ibid, pp.199-201.

12. Refer to the following: "Ecclesiastes responds by saying that a person
susceptible to change and the fluctuations of happiness cannot have wisdom and
knowledge. The benefit of these [changeable] elements consists in the empty
pursuit of distractions caused by the flesh." (J.363)

13. Refer to the book Die Einheit des Leibes Christi bei Gregor von Nyssa by
Reinhard Hubner (Leiden, 1974) for a detailed study of how Gregory relates the
person of Jesus Christ to the unity of his body the Church.
