To Be A Light

For so the Lord has commanded us: ‘I have set you as a light to the Gentiles,
That you should be for salvation to the ends of the earth. – Acts 13:47

  • Home
  • About Me
  • Contact Me
  • Blog Policies & Guidelines

[                    ]
[rainbow_hd]
top image

  • Recommended Reading

    [q]ABCs of Praise and Prayer: How 15 minutes with God Can Change Your Day
  •  

  • Currently Reading:

      □ Victory Over the Darkness
      □ When Healing Prayers Aren't Working
      □ Your Words Hold a Miracle
      □ Praying the Names of Jesus
      □ Satan's Dirty Little Secret
  •  

Subscribe to this blog

Subscribe to full feed RSS
What is RSS?!

Subscribe Via Email

[Your email address..] [Subscribe] We respect your privacy. 
Recent Posts

What is Faith?

By Traci On March 17, 2013 2 Comments
Tweet

Definition of Faith:

  • Confident belief in the truth, value, or trustworthiness of a person, idea,
    or thing.
  • Strong or unshakeable belief in something, especially without proof or
    evidence.
  • Complete confidence or trust in a person, thing, etc.
  • Allegiance or loyalty to a person or cause.

Based on these definitions, do you have faith in God or Christ? With all
honesty, my answer is sometimes yes, but all too often it is no. I believe in
God. I believe that He exits and that He is the Supreme Creator of everything.
I believe in Christ. I believe He is who the Bible says He is and that He died
on the cross for me. So, where do I lose it in my faith? What am I missing?
What I am often missing is the confidence, the trust, and the unshakeability
that is the very foundation of faith.

I fail to trust in God

Click here to continue reading



Angry At God. Can you help?

By Traci On April 24, 2012 No Comments
Tweet

I am writing a book about being angry at God. The purpose of the book is to
share my experiences and to help others who are or have been angry at God and
are trying to find ways to deal with that anger without losing their faith or
how to regain their faith if they believe they have lost it. I am looking for
input from others.

Below are some of the things I would like to know.

  • Are you or have you been angry at God?
  • Do you have a story to tell? I would love to hear your stories.
  • Do you think it’s okay to be angry at God? Why or why not?
  • If you were to pick up a book about being angry at God, what kinds of
    questions would you hope the book answered? What would you like to read
    about most in a book like that?
  • When

Click here to continue reading



Hungry For God

By Traci On April 11, 2012 No Comments
Tweet

“Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be
filled” – Matthew 5:6 (NKJV)

Have you ever been really hungry or really thirsty? Have you ever craved
something so badly that you can’t think about anything else until you get it?
When you get like that, you can’t focus on anything else. All you can think
about is getting something to eat or something to drink. Nothing else matters
until you get it. This is the way God wants us to crave Him. He wants us to
hunger and thirst for Him and He promises that if we do, we will be filled and
He will fill us with something far more satisfying than anything we can find in
this world.

Do you hunger and thirst for righteousness? Are you hungry for God? Do you
crave intimacy and a personal relationship with God? Or

Click here to continue reading



Are You A Sunday Morning Christian?

By Traci On March 25, 2012 No Comments
Tweet

“Be careful to live properly among your unbelieving neighbors. Then even if
they accuse you of doing wrong, they will see your honorable behavior, and they
will give honor to God when he judges the world” – 1 Peter 2:12 (NKJV)

One of the things I struggled with on my path to becoming a Christian and the
accusation I often hear from current non-believers is the perceived hypocrisy
among people who call themselves Christians. Statistics show that the divorce
rate among Christians is the same as among non-Christians. Christians commit
adultery and fornication just as often as non-Christians. Christians are also
just as likely as non-Christians to resort to unethical behavior in the
workplace. We bicker and fight and show hatred and intolerance when we should
show compassion and use our opportunities to win lost souls to Christ.

It’s as if we go to Church on Sunday

Click here to continue reading



New! To Be A Light Coming Soon!

By Traci On March 14, 2012 No Comments
Tweet

The To Be A Light blog has been around for a long time, but after my brother
died unexpectedly on September 22, 2007 at the age of 32, I lost the heart for
it and stopped writing on this blog. I didn’t stop blogging entirely. I just
stopped blogging on To Be A Light. It was too painful to be here, especially
after writing about the loss of my brother. I could never seem to come up with
a post that seemed right following that one.

Recently, after much soul searching, I decided to wipe out the original To Be A
Light and start over. I’ve given the site a whole new, much brighter and more
cheerful, design and I’m ready to start writing on it again. I hope you’ll join
me in creating the motivating and uplifting experience I originally intended
for this blog.

Stay tuned for

Click here to continue reading



  • God’s Word for You

    `Bless the Lord, O my soul: and all that is within me, bless his holy name.
    Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits:
    Who forgiveth all thine iniquities; who healeth all thy diseases;
    Who redeemeth thy life from destruction; who crowneth thee with
    lovingkindness and tender mercies;
    Who satisfieth thy mouth with good things; so that thy youth is renewed
    like the eagle’s.' — Psalms 103:1-5 KJV

  • Categories

      □ Christian Living (3)
      □ General (2)
  • 
      □ All available posts are currently shown on the homepage.

  •  

(C) 2008-Present To Be A Light | Sitemap
