                          St. Patrick Catholic Church
                               Saint of the Day
[sp_altar]   
                                     Eustochium V (RM)
Home                                    September 28
Mass Times
&            People clamour for stories about the irascible Saint Jerome, and
Sacraments   Saint Eustochium's story converges with his.
Papal
Visit 2015   St. Jerome was obviously well-loved by the matrons of Rome, though
Faith        he did have a biting tongue. His counsel to St. Eustochium: "Set
Direct       before your eyes the blessed Virgin Mary, whose purity was such
Calendar     that she earned the reward of being the mother of the Lord."
of Events
Weekly       Saint Paula's life was such a powerful witness that she inspired
Bulletin     her own daughter Eustochium, who was born in Rome c. 368, to
Archive      sainthood. Eustochium was single for the Lord-- she consecrated
Parish       herself to a life of virginity, having learned austerity from her
Fellowship   widowed mother and St. Marcella.
Special
Annual       The home of the widow Saint Marcella became a sort of monastery/
Masses       school for the ladies, who devoted themselves to intense,
Becoming     scientific study of the Scriptures on their own. These patrician
Catholic     women of the capital city--SS Paula, Eustochium, Blaesilla,
(RCIA)       Marcella and her ward Principia, Marcellina (sister of St.
Devotions    Ambrose), Fabiola, Asella, and Lea (all saints)--encouraged one
Music        another to strive for Christian perfection. Living just prior to
Parish       the fall of Rome, they did not wait until disaster forced the
Staff        ascetic life upon them; they saw that luxury is out of place in a
Our          Christian.
History
Guide to     When young, sarcastic Jerome arrived in Rome in 382, Marcella
the Church   prevailed upon him to teach their group Hebrew and exegesis. And
Saint of     he did. Eustochium was given spiritual guidance and scriptural
the Day      instruction by St. Jerome between 382-385 during his stay in Rome.
Search       Eustochium's sister St. Blaesilla threw herself so vehemently into
Contact Us   the ascetic life that she died in 384. Paula was almost crazy with
&            grief, but Jerome rebuked her and promised to glorify Blaesilla by
Directions   writing about her. The group was very close urging each other on
             to sanctity. In fact, St. Paulina (Eustochium's other sister)
             married one of Jerome's school friends. When Paulina's children
             were stillborn and she died young, her husband became a monk.

             When Jerome left Rome, St. Paula and her daughter Eustochium
             followed and joined St. Jerome at Antioch, Egypt, and Bethlehem.
            
             Paula's fortune was added to what money Jerome possessed to found
             a monastery near Bethlehem. Jerome lived in a cave nearby 'to make
             sure (said Paula) that if Mary and Joseph came again to Bethlehem,
             there would be somewhere for them to stay.'

             Three communities of women were founded close by St. Jerome's
             monastery, and Paula took charge of one of them. Eustochium took
             care of every material need, including the cooking. But Jerome
             relied on her for much more. He was busy translating the Bible
             into Latin. When his eyes began to fail, he would have been
             obliged to abandon the work, had not Eustochium and her mother
             been there to help him. He reckoned that they were better able to
             judge the value of his work than most men, and dedicated some of
             his writings to them.

             When Paula died in 404, Eustochium (said Jerome) wished she could
             have been buried with her. But instead she took over the community
             abbey. She died in 418 or 419.

             Eustochium's life is also documented by the many surviving letters
             and scriptural commentaries of St. Jerome, which are directed to
             Paula and Eustochium. Eustochium in her youth was the addressee of
             one of Jerome's most famous letter (Ep. 22)--a lengthy treatise on
             virginity. (In his letters to the women St. Jerome demonstrated
             true humanity and fatherly care.)

             (Note: Since the universal Church celebrates St. Wenceslas, the
             martyr-king of Bohemia, on September 28 (died 929), St.
             Eustochium's feast is only celebrated locally.)


             ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
             
             About Saints of the Day
             These summaries were prepared in 1998 by St. Patrick's parishioner
             Katherine I. Rabenstein and are reproduced on
             www.saintpatrickdc.org with the permission of the author. Note
             that the content has not been updated since that time and
             represents the research of the author. An alphabetical index of
             all saints on our site is available. Source references are also
             available. HTML formatting (C) 2007-2008 by St. Patrick's Catholic
             Church, Washington, D.C.


