Exeter bike delivery
Living Witness - Quakers for Sustainability
Intro
About Us
Workshops
Events
Contact

  • earthQuaker
  • Publications
  • Buildings
  • Recommended Reading
  • Green Advices and Queries
  • Annual Reports
  • Living Witness Meetings
  • Who we are
  • Get Involved
  • Links
  • 

 

 

footprints

 

Introduction

Climate change has gained a high level of public awareness, but few people are
ready for the deep changes needed in society and our way of life, if the worst
impacts are to be avoided.

About 80 Quaker meetings are now involved with Living Witness, connecting our
spiritual life as worshiping communities with our witness for a sustainable
world. Momentum is growing as Friends learn and work together, with regular
groups and action to green their lives and Meetings, practical projects in
their local communities, and engagement with local and national government.

Quakers have a particular contribution to make in responding to climate change
and other sustainability challenges. We offer a way forward based on our own
shared experience. It includes a commitment to simplicity and equality;
willingness to question our own habits of thought and action; and – perhaps
most distinctively – Quaker processes for developing a collective will for
change in our own lives, our communities and wider society.

Living Witness supports members with information and how-to-do-it guides, e.g.
for working out carbon footprints, leading study groups and organising
environmental audits. It also offers facilitated workshops in local Meetings.
Individual Friends and representatives of Quaker Meetings are welcome at our
regular national gatherings.

 

Human Dimensions Network

Sign up to be part of the new network exploring the social, psychological and
spiritual aspects of climate change.

 1. Subscribe to our new blog site on the human dimensions of climate change
    at:
    www.livingwitness.org.uk/hd
 2. Join our list for e-mail discussion of this theme by following this link.
    http://livingwitness.org.uk/mailman/listinfo/pss_livingwitness.org.uk

 

 

Sustainability Toolkit

QPSW and Living Witness have drawn on their collective experience and expertise
to produce the Sustainability Toolkit to inspire and support meetings to
respond to the Yearly Meeting call to action.

Toolkit

Click here to download the pdf version of the Toolkit

Also available at www.quaker.org.uk/sustainability

 

Link to online Climate Impact Calculators

Personal Calculator

Click here to see what the impact of your life has on the climate

There is one calculator for your personal impact and another for your Meeting.

(C) Living Witness - Registered Charity No. 1119938

