[logo]

  • Home
  • GracePlace
      □ Mission
      □ Meet Our Leaders
      □ Grace’s History
      □ Host an Event
      □ South Loop Campus Ministry
      □ SoulScarves
      □ Yoga
  • Programs
  • Resources
  • Contact Us

[Overlay_Grace-Place]

A Home for Your Spirit in Chicago’s South Loop

graceplace mediumGrace is a modern downtown Christian church that emphasizes
community, learning and service. Our congregation is intentionally diverse; all
are welcome regardless of race, background or sexual orientation. It is a place
where we aim to engage both your heart and your mind.




Upcoming Events

  • Jan 04

    Programs | Yoga @ Grace

    In the serenity of Grace's second floor sanctuary. No Yoga on Monday, Dec.
    21. Mondays 5:30 - 6:30 p.m.;  Tuesdays 6-7:30 p.m.;   Saturdays 12:30 - 1
    :45 p.m. Questions and info on the instructor Steve's website.

  • Jan 09

    Programs | Community Breakfast

    Volunteer: Help serve the first meal of the day to more than 180 people in
    this lively, fun and necessary meal for those who come to our doors.  This
    heroic ministry of the Chicago Temple / The First United Methodist Church
    is held 51 Saturday mornings a year here in Grace Place.  Contact us to be
    scheduled.

  • Jan 09

    Worship | Holy Trinity in the Loop

    Holy Trinity Lutheran (ELCA) Church in Wrigleyville celebrates a eucharist
    service at 5 PM at Grace Place.  See "HTLoop"  for more information.

  • Jan 10

    Campus Ministry | Takin’ It To the Streets

    The Episcopal-Lutheran South Loop Campus Chaplaincy gathers each Sunday
    evening at 7 PM to prepare sandwiches and then distribute them with
    neighbors and to neighbors.  Details here on their facebook page. The last
    Sunday of the month the Ministry serves a hot meal to all comers!

  • Jan 14

    Programs | Sandwiches for the Night Ministry

    Since the 1970s The Night Ministry has ministered to the people of
    Chicago's streets and neighborhoods without judgement. Grace shares
    sandwiches on the second Thursday (6:45 - 8:45 PM) of each month with our
    neighbors in Back of the Yards (54th & Halsted). We make the sandwiches and
    picnic sacks the day before, Wednesday, 5-6 PM.  Email us if you can help
    out on one or both of those days.

Give to Grace

Make a Pledge for Year 2016

Online Donations

Since 1851 generous souls have made Grace Church’s mission and ministry
possible by thoughtful contribution of their talents and their financial
resources. Thanks for joining this long chain of intentional prayer and
support. It is a human propensity — and deep need — to give.

Give to Grace

This will take you to our online contributions provider  VANCO.

Give by mobile device using this secure QR Code:

[qr-code-donations]

Address / Map

Location


View Larger Map

637 South Dearborn Street
Chicago, IL 60605

[Dearborn Street between Harrison and Polk. We are in a loft building, not a
church building, on the right hand side as you drive north on Dearborn]

Parking

Free parking is available between 7:30am and 2:30pm on Sundays. The lot is one
block northeast of the church at Jones College Prep High School, located at the
corner of Harrison and Plymouth Court. (Please park only in the spaces marked
“Visitor Parking” or “Permit Parking.”)

Accessibility

Grace Place is fully accessible.

Public Transportation

CTA Train: Red Line Harrison, Blue Line LaSalle or Jackson, Purple/Brown/Orange
/Pink Lines Library/State/Van Buren, Green Line Adams or Roosevelt.  CTA Bus:
many city local and express bus lines terminate within blocks of Grace Place.
Metra Trains: LaSalle Street Station (2.4 blocks), Union Station (8 blocks),
Olgivie Transportation Center (10 blocks). South Shore Line: Van Buren Street
Station or Roosevelt.  Plan your travel on Google Transit.

 

Contact Us
One moment...
Weekly Services

Interactive homily for kids on the Feast of St. Nicholas

 

Sundays

8:00 AM  (40 min) Contemplative Eucharist
10:00 AM (60 min) Eucharist with Music
9:30 AM  (80 min) Godly Play
11:30 AM (45 min) Faith Formation for Adults, most Sundays

kids_small

 Weekdays

Wednesday Nights – 6:00 PM (55 min) Centering Prayer

pet_blessing_2015

Harnessing the power of prayer
Please submit prayer requests to: prayers@gracechicago.org. Any request sent to
this address will be included in the Sunday bulletin and the e-newsletter,
unless you request otherwise. 

RECTOR SEARCH UPDATE

rector search

The Search Committee is now at work creating two documents that will eventually
be available to those looking for rector positions. One of those documents, the
Parish Profile should be complete by the end of January and will be available
for all in the congregation to see. A link to it will be available on the
website. Thanks to everyone who provided input for the documents. Please keep
your prayers coming! Contact Andrea Billhardt or Terrie McComb with any
questions.

Search Committee: Andrea Billhardt and Terrie McComb (co-chairs). Stephen Howe,
Wendy Manning, Tom Miller, Marilynn Rochon, and Dan Wilson (members).

 shaver

 
Grace Church: “a home for your spirit in the South Loop”

[footer-logo]

  • Home
  • GracePlace
  • Programs
  • Resources
  • Contact Us

