Decent Films
Now Playing Home Video Reviews Articles Blog Mail About Search Page
 
  

The Vatican Film List

SDG

On March 17, 1995, almost exactly 10 years before his passing, Pope John Paul
II addressed a plenary assembly of the Pontifical Commission for Social
Communications, which that year observed another anniversary of particular
importance to its own mission and to the Holy Father’s heart: the centenary of
the motion picture.

“Since the first public audience in Paris viewed the moving pictures prepared
by the Lumie`re brothers in December 1895,” the pope said, “the film industry
has become a universal medium exercising a profound influence on the
development of people’s attitudes and choices, and possessing a remarkable
ability to influence public opinion and culture across all social and political
frontiers.”

The pope’s remarks were both forward looking, speaking to the potential of
cinema to become “a more and more positive factor in the development of
individuals and a stimulus for the conscience of society as a whole,” and also
historically minded, speaking positively of the praiseworthy contributions of
“many worthwhile productions during the first hundred years of [the cinema’s]
existence.”

Later that year, the pontifical commission provided an important reference
point to Catholics interested in assessing the cinema’s “many worthwhile
productions during the first hundred years of its existence”: a list of 45
films that has come to be known as the Vatican film list.

Though often characterized, somewhat misleadingly, as “the Vatican’s top
films,” the list is meant neither as a set of definitive or magisterial “top
fifteen” lists nor to establish these particular films as definitely more
worthwhile than any film that was not included. Titled simply “Some Important
Films,” the list is simply a cross section of outstanding films, chosen by a
committee of twelve international movie scholars appointed by the head of the
pontifical commission, Archbishop John Foley. Archbishop Foley has said that
the list is not intended to canonize these particular films; and, in releasing
the list, the commission acknowledged, “Not all that deserve mention are
included.”

The list is made up of three categories, “Religion,” “Values,” and “Art,” with
15 films in each of the three categories. Some are well-known favorites (e.g.,
It’s a Wonderful Life; The Wizard of Oz). Others have extraordinary moral or
spiritual significance (e.g., A Man for All Seasons; Schindler’s List). Still
others are challenging “art films” that demand literate critical engagement
(the austere mysticism of Tarkovsky’s Andrei Rublev and The Sacrifice; the
exotic grotesquerie of Fellini’s La Strada and 81/2).

The list includes comedy (The Lavender Hill Mob), horror (Nosferatu), science
fiction (2001: A Space Odyssey; Metropolis), animation (Fantasia), sports (
Chariots of Fire), family melodrama (Little Women), a number of war movies,
several silent films, even a Western (Stagecoach).

This openness to cinema in all its forms reflects the view articulated in the
Holy Father’s address to the pontifical commission. “The Church’s overall
judgment of this art form, as of all genuine art, is positive and hopeful,”
John Paul II declared. “We have seen that masterpieces of the art of film
making can be moving challenges to the human spirit, capable of dealing in
depth with subjects of great meaning and importance from an ethical and
spiritual point of view.”

At the same time, the pope sounded a note of caution: “Unfortunately, though,
some cinema productions merit criticism and disapproval, even severe criticism
and disapproval. This is the case when films distort the truth, oppress genuine
freedom, or show scenes of sex and violence offensive to human dignity.”

This moral caution may also be discerned in the choices reflected by the
Vatican film list. For example, silent cinema pioneer D. W. Griffith, honored
on the list for his ambitious epic Intolerance, may be better known for his
landmark, deeply controversial The Birth of a Nation, a Civil War epic marred
by much racist imagery.

Though undeniably an “important film,” Birth of a Nation also “merits criticism
and disapproval,” to use the pope’s words, for “distorting the truth” and even
“oppressing genuine freedom.” Such considerations may well have played a role
in the decision to honor Intolerance rather than Birth of a Nation on the list.

Likewise, the list’s representative comedy, Ealing Studio’s caper picture The
Lavender Hill Mob, might possibly have been given the edge over another
arguably more popular Ealing comedy of the same period, Kind Hearts and
Coronets, for moral reasons.

Both films epitomize the sophisticated, drolly subversive dark humor that were
Ealing’s trademark. The Lavender Hill Mob stars Alec Guinness and Stanley
Holloway as a pair of gold thieves; Kind Hearts and Coronets stars Dennis Price
as a disgruntled distant heir to a peerage methodically killing every relative
(all played by Guinness) that stands between him and the title. Was the
black-comedy serial murder of Kind Hearts and Coronets deemed less suitable for
the Vatican list than the modestly dark caper comedy of The Lavender Hill Mob?

Though the list honors films that show restraint in the depiction of violence
and sexuality, it doesn’t confine itself to films that totally avoid such
content — any more than the Church’s patronage of other art forms has
historically eschewed depictions of violence and nudity. Nudity, sexual
content, obscene and profane language, and explicit violence can all be found
in films on the list.

Yet all demonstrate a level of restraint that distinguishes them from morally
unworthy productions. In acknowledging films that deal with potentially
disturbing content, the list again reflects the thought of John Paul II, who
wrote in his Letter to Artists, “Even when they explore the darkest depths of
the soul or the most unsettling aspects of evil, artists give voice in a way to
the universal desire for redemption” (10). (See also “What Are the Decent
Films?”)

In recognizing the merits of these particular films, the commission did not
endorse everything these films contain, or gave them any kind of imprimatur or
blanket ecclesiastical approval. Movies, like other works of culture, are
seldom if ever perfect. Even with good or important ones, the viewer must be
able to think critically and sort out the good from the bad.

Thus, the films listed in, for instance, the “Values” category possess special
moral worth, but that doesn’t mean that they are perfect even with respect to
moral content — and certainly not with respect to religious or artistic
significance. Likewise, there is no endorsement of the religious or moral ideas
of the “Art” films; these films were included because they were landmarks in
the art of cinematography, not because of religious or moral values.

For example, 2001: A Space Odyssey is rightly recognized as an extraordinary
cinematic achievement, but its non-theistic ascent-of-man mythology is
reflective of a secular worldview that Christians cannot accept. It is
possible, however, to appreciate the film’s achievement without accepting its
worldview, just as one can appreciate The Iliad without believing in the Greek
gods. The pontifical commission also recognized the religious significance of
Pier Paolo Pasolini’s The Gospel According to Matthew even though Pasolini
himself was a Marxist.

The list is not infallible, or even authoritative. Catholics may reasonably
take issue with the inclusion of certain titles. I have my own quarrels with
the list, which in my opinion includes both the best movie ever made about St.
Francis of Assisi, Rossellini’s The Flowers of St. Francis, and also the worst,
Liliana Cavani’s Francesco.

There are also absent titles I would gladly add, above all Bresson’s Diary of a
Country Priest. The lovely Polish film Faustina, too, would surely have merited
consideration, if only it had come out a few years earlier than the 1995 list
rather than in the same year. Perhaps it could be included in a follow-up list
90 years from now.

What other films from the last ten years might warrant inclusion in such a
follow-up list? Many films celebrated today, such as Million Dollar Baby and
Sideways, seem unlikely to generate much interest decades from now. The Passion
of the Christ, on the other hand, seems likely to have a long-term impact that
over time would make it an increasingly obvious candidate. Archbishop Foley has
defended The Passion against its critics, arguing that “if they’re critical of
the film, they would be critical of the Gospel.” John Paul II, who may or may
not have said “It is as it was,” would quite possibly have agreed.

“Some Important Films”

For the 100th Anniversary of Cinema

Pontifical Council for Social Communications, 1995

Religion

  • Andrei Rublev Andrei Tarkowsky (1969, USSR)
  • The Mission Roland Joffe' (1986, UK)
  • La passion de Jeanne d’Arc (The Passion of Joan of Arc) 
    Carl T. Dreyer (1928, France)
  • La vie et la passion de Je'sus Christ (Life and Passion of Christ)
    Ferdinand Zecca and Lucien Nonguet (1905, France)
    Identified on the Vatican film list as La Passion Pathe'
  • Francesco, giullare di Dio 
    (The Flowers of St. Francis / Francis, God’s Jester) 
    Roberto Rossellini (1950, Italy)
  • Il vangelo secondo Matteo (The Gospel According to Matthew) 
    Pier Paolo Pasolini (1964, France/Italy)
  • The're`se Alain Cavalier (1986, France)
  • Ordet (The Word) Carl T. Dreyer (1955, Denmark)
  • Offret — Sacrificatio (The Sacrifice) 
    Andrei Tarkowsky (1986, Sweden/UK/France)
  • Francesco Liliana Cavani (1989, Italy/Germany)
  • Ben-Hur [A Tale of the Christ] William Wyler (1959, USA)
  • Babettes gaestebud (Babette’s Feast) Gabriel Axel (1987, Denmark)
  • Nazari'n Luis Bun~uel (1958, Mexico)
  • Monsieur Vincent Maurice Cloche (1947, France)
  • A Man for All Seasons Fred Zinnemann (1966, UK)

Values

  • Gandhi Richard Attenborough (1982, UK/USA/India)
  • Intolerance D. W. Griffith (1916, USA)
  • Dekalog (The Decalogue) Krzysztof Kieslowski (1987, Poland)
    Identified on the Vatican film list as Il Decalogo
  • Au Revoir, Les Enfants (Goodbye, Children) Louis Malle (1987, France)
  • Dersu Uzala Akira Kurosawa (1974, Japan)
  • L’albero degli zoccoli (The Tree of the Wooden Clogs) 
    Ermanno Olmi (1978, Italy/France)
  • Roma, citta` aperta (Open City) Roberto Rossellini (1946, Italy)
  • Smultronsta:llet (Wild Strawberries) Ingmar Bergman (1957, Sweden)
  • Det sjunde inseglet (The Seventh Seal) Ingmar Bergman (1957, Sweden)
  • Chariots of Fire Hugh Hudson (1981, UK)
  • Ladri di biciclette (The Bicycle Thief) Vittorio de Sica (1948, Italy)
  • It’s a Wonderful Life Frank Capra (1946, USA)
  • Schindler’s List Steven Spielberg (1993, USA)
  • On the Waterfront Elia Kazan (1954, USA)
  • Biruma No Tategoto (The Burmese Harp) Kon Ichikawa (1956, Japan)

Art

  • 2001: A Space Odyssey Stanley Kubrick (1968, UK/USA)
  • La Strada Federico Fellini (1954, Italy)
  • Citizen Kane Orson Welles (1941, USA)
  • Metropolis Fritz Lang (1927, Germany)
  • Modern Times Charlie Chaplin (1936, USA)
  • Napole'on Abel Gance (1927, Italy)
  • 81/2 Federico Fellini (1963, Italy)
  • La grande illusion (Grand Illusion) Jean Renoir (1937, France)
  • Nosferatu F. W. Murnau (1922, Germany)
  • Stagecoach John Ford (1939, USA)
  • Il Gattopardo (The Leopard) Luchino Visconti (1963, Italy/France)
  • Fantasia (1940, USA)
  • The Wizard of Oz Victor Fleming (1939, USA)
  • The Lavender Hill Mob Charles Crichton (1951, UK)
  • Little Women George Cukor (1933, USA)

Tags: Religious Themes, Vatican Film List, Vatican Film List: Art, Vatican Film
List: Religion
     

Recent

  • Good Denzel, bad Denzel: Malcolm X
  • Stations of the Cross
  • The subversive non-subversiveness of “Phineas and Ferb”
  • Is Star Wars Gnostic?
  • The myth and magic of Star Wars:
    Is it over?

Now Playing

  • Spotlight
  • Star Wars: Episode VII – The Force Awakens
  • The Good Dinosaur [video]

Home Video

  • Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015)
  • Cinderella (2015)
  • Francesco (1989)
  • Two Days, One Night (2014)

Home Now Playing Home Video Reviews Articles Blog Mail Search Page About
Contact     

Copyright (C) 2000– Steven D. Greydanus. All rights reserved.

