skip to main content

Manchester and Stockport Methodist District[methodist]

FacebookTwitterMembers

“The calling of the Methodist Church is to respond to the Gospel of God's love
in Christ and to live out its discipleship in worship and mission, in service
and practical caring”

Site Navigation

  • Home

  • News & Stories

  • Events

  • Find us near you...

  • In Partnership

  • Governance & Policy

  • Resources

  • Local Preachers

  • Vacancies

  • Contact us

Main Content

Welcome

[aaw]

The Manchester and Stockport District covers a significant part of Greater
Manchester and extends into Cheshire and Derbyshire.  Although relatively
geographically compact, it covers inner city, industrial, post-industrial,
suburban and rural areas.  Within the apparently more prosperous circuits,
areas of poverty and need are to be found.  Just as no two towns are the same,
the issues and challenges we face in rural Derbyshire are different from those
in rural Cheshire.

All are welcome ...

The District embraces a rich breadth and variety of theological perspectives
and worship styles.  A range of fresh expressions of Church (messy church, cafe
Church, arts based projects etc.) are nurtured without neglecting the other,
more traditional, expressions.

… and supported

There are 145 churches across 19 circuits, and a total membership of 8,400. The
District seeks to support each circuit and church to meet the needs of their
members and the communities in which they serve, offering opportunities to
worship, work and learn together.

 

We hope that this web site gives you a feel for who we are, what we believe and
what we do, and encourages you to share with us in the journey of faith in
Christ Jesus.

Welcoming Refugees

Hubs of Interest from around the District

Creative Arts Hub
Rural Churches Hub
Young Adults Hub
Methodist Women in Britain Hub

Prayer of the day

Provided by : The Methodist Church in Britain

Wednesday, 13 Jan 2016

Grant to us, O Lord, fullness of faith, firmness of hope and fervency of love.
For the sake of the gospel may we sit loosely to our wealth and daily embrace
you in the poor of the world. As we rejoice in your generosity so may we give
ourselves in the service of others; through Christ our Lord. Amen. Thomas More
(1478-1535) God-with-us, Emmanuel, may we wait expectantly, prepare
prayerfully, act carefully, live hopefully, every day with you. Amen. Ruth Gee,
Darlington District Chair

Video Clips
What's your story? District Development Plan - Priorities

Calendar

Calendar

previous month January 2016        next month
     Mon       Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat    Sun
                           1   2   3
4              5   6   7   8   9   10
11             12  13  14  15  16  17
18             19  20  21  22  23  24
25             26  27  28  29  30  31

Today’s Events

  • No events today

External Links

Methodist Church UK

Transforming Churches and Communities

Methodists in the North West

Fresh Expressions

Singing the Faith Plus

Nexus Cafe

Methodist Children and Youth

All We Can - Methodist Relief and Development

Reflect Retreats

Churches Together in England

Luther King House

Statistics for Mission

Methodist International House Manchester

Chaplaincy Everywhere Course Download

Open Source Chaplaincy

The Pen and Camera Club of Methodism

Navigation

  • Home
  • News & Stories

  • Events

  • Find us near you...

  • In Partnership

  • Governance & Policy

  • Resources

  • Local Preachers

  • Vacancies

  • Contact us

  • Follow us on twitter

  • Follow us on facebook

Copyright (C) 2015 Manchester & Stockport Methodist District

Website Design By Aggelia

