Apostolic Christian Skylines

Main Facility: 309.691.8091
Home Care: 309.689.5343

[Search ...          ]
[ ]
  • The Skylines Difference
      □ Who We Are
      □ Why Choose Us
      □ Testimonials
  • Living Options
      □ Independent Living
      □ Assisted Care
      □ Skilled Nursing Care
      □ Therapy Services
      □ Memory Care
  • Daily Living At Skylines
      □ The Spas At Skylines
      □ Dining at Skylines
      □ Activities
          ☆ Special Events
      □ Worship Opportunities
      □ Volunteering At Skylines
  • Home Care Services
      □ Testimonials
      □ Employment Opportunities
      □ Contact Us
      □ Our Brochure
      □ Our Blog
      □ NEW - Exercise Aide Services
  • Ways to Give
  • Contact Us
      □ Application for Employment
      □ Links of Interest
      □ Newsletter Signup

Developed in conjunction with Joomla extensions.

  • A Christian Community

    Christian Community

    Skylines is a Christian retirement community where choices, dignity and
    fellowship thrive in a loving home. Guided by Christian principles, our
    staff and volunteers make all the difference by creating a peaceful and
    pleasant home for our residents to live. Being a non-for-profit
    organization, we believe that caring for our resident’s physical and
    spiritual needs is our most important priority.

    Learn More

    Read More
  • Skilled Nursing

    Skilled Nursing

    Excellent Skilled Nursing is our reputation and hallmark. As a person ages,
    their medical needs increase and become more complex. Our highly skilled
    nursing staff has many years of experience caring for aging individuals
    with complex nursing needs. Apostolic Christian Skylines is well-known in
    the local medical community—we are where doctors refer their parents.

    Learn More

    Read More
  • Best Rated Senior Care

    Best Rated Senior Care

    Skylines has a reputation of being one of the very best homes in Central
    Illinois. We have earned a national 5-star (the highest) rating by
    government nursing home inspectors. Visitors often comment that Skylines is
    well-maintained, clean and odor-free. Our staffing levels rank in the
    highest percentile in the nation—the staff at our home make all the
    difference.

    Learn More

    Read More
  • Home Care Services

    Home Care Services

    Bring Excellent Care to Your own Home. The excellent care Skylines is known
    for can be provided for your loved one at home. We help individuals stay in
    their own home for as long as possible. We provide care from 4 to 24 hours
    a day and customize to meet your needs. Our caregivers are
    background-checked, insured, and highly-trained.

    Learn More

    Read More
  • The Spas At Skylines

    [slide-10]

    The hurried-up, generic bath-time has been replaced by a relaxing &
    rejuvenating Spa Experience. A spa attendant will give you choices of
    aromatherapy scents, soaps, cre`mes, mood music, and fully assist and
    operate the Jacuzzi Spa. The Penner brand Jacuzzi is the very best with
    many features that make your experience more enjoyable.

    Learn More

    Read More
  • Independent Living

    Independent Living

    Independent Living with Assisted Living Options. Choosing Skylines is smart
    planning. Residents living in our independent areas know the very best
    nursing care is at Skylines, should they need it. Many services are
    provided to our residents as they continue to live independently. Or if a
    resident requires higher levels of care, such as skilled nursing, we have
    it here.

    Learn More

    Read More
  • Memory Care

    Dementia & Alzheimer's Care

    Salem means “Peace”—a quiet and nurturing community for residents with
    Alzheimer's and dementia. Salem is our highest staffed area and is directed
    by an RN. This state-of-the-art, modern living area was designed and built
    using the “household” model and focuses on aiding those suffering from the
    Alzheimer's disease and dementia symptoms.

    Learn More

    Read More

  • 1
  • 2
  • 3
  • 4
  • 5
  • 6
  • 7

Welcome to Apostolic Christian Skylines

acs-drop-off

Welcome to Apostolic Christian Skylines

Welcome to an inviting community devoted to your spiritual, emotional, and
physical well being. Our heartfelt mission is to help you live as fully and
independently as you desire in a loving, supportive Christian environment.
Nestled in a pleasant wooded setting along the Illinois River, Apostolic
Christian Skylines offers serenity and socialization at your comfort level.

Apostolic Christian Skylines is a Continuing Care Retirement Community (CCRC).
We offer living options that range from independent living to skilled nursing
care. Our friendly and qualified staff considers it a privilege to serve you.
We hope you feel at home when you walk in the door. If you are thinking of
retirement living options, please consider Apostolic Christian Skyline where
"Caring Together is Right at Home." 


Caring Together is Right At Home


Most of our rooms are private and offer the greatest level of comfort. We have
among the highest staffing levels in the nation. Since we use consistent
staffing, the same caregivers are caring for the same residents as much as
possible. Staff learns each resident’s needs and how to give the best
individualized care. Please check us out. We are happy to give a tour.

    And my people shall dwell in peaceable habitation, and sure dwellings and
    in quiet resting places...ISAIAH 32:18a

●Residency Application

Please complete and return this application to be considered for residency.
Contact the Admissions Department with questions at (309) 683-2513.

Residency Application

● Career Opportunities

We are always interested in finding caring and dependable people with high
standards and a strong work ethic. If you are, please submit an application.

Apply for a Job

● Skyline News

Stay up on the latest of what we are up to here at Skylines. Subscribe to our
newsletter for an annual fee of $20.00.

Subscribe Here

●Volunteers

Volunteers make a significant difference in the lives of our residents. View
our list of volunteering options and join our team.

Volunteer Today

●Testimonials

We take pride in offering great opportunities for our residents. See what our
residents and their families are saying about Skylines.

Read Testimonials

●Donate

Click below to see what you can do to help us here at Skylines? Learn about the
various Charitable Opportunities at Skylines.

Ways to Give

  • The Skylines Difference
  • Living Options
  • Daily Living At Skylines
  • Home Care Services
  • Ways to Give
  • Contact Us

donate to the cause

(C)2015 Apostolic Christian Skylines • 7023 NE Skyline Drive • Peoria, IL 61614
   Get Directions

Web Design by Floyd & Partners

