  • Home
  • About PVUMC
  • Bean Hole Suppers
  • Directions & Services
  • e-Tour
  • The Link
  • VBS

[header2]
[bg_header_]

Pleasant Valley United Methodist Church

Entries RSS | Comments RSS
[                    ] [Search]
  • Welcome!

    We’re always happy to receive visitors in church and certainly on-line as
    well. If you are looking for a church family, we hope you will spend some
    time at our site. We have a great joy in this church and we are always
    excited to share it with others!
  • Blogroll

      □ Chuck Knows Church
      □ Church World Service
      □ CT Central District
      □ NY Annual Conference
      □ United Methodist Church
      □ United Methodist Committee on Relief
      □ Washington Hill UMC
      □ WordPress.com
      □ WordPress.org

Lenten Bible Study announced.

Posted on January 11, 2016 by margofenn

This year the Lenten Bible Study will take place Sunday evenings at 7PM
beginning on February 7th, and concluding on Palm Sunday evening. The study
will be on “The ‘Eschatological Event’, or in Jesus’ words ‘the end times’.
This topic will be explored using Biblical References such as found in the
Gospel of Mark, chapter 13:1-27 and Mark 13:24-37, speaking about Christ’s
return. It’s not a ‘predictive’ study of when or placing a ‘time’ for it to
occur. However, it is a study to provoke thoughts and to introduce ‘peace’ –
even in the midst of the storms (such as all that is occurring that produces
fear and anxiety). Everyone is invited to attend; there is no charge but a
donation basket will be available. Bring your Holy Bible and note book to take
notes and to share your thoughts.

bible-04

Filed under: Uncategorized | Leave a comment >>

The January 2016 Link is available now.

Posted on January 6, 2016 by margofenn

Start the New Year off right by checking out the information in our January
2016 edition of the church newsletter, The Link. Just click on The Link tab at
the top of the page and then find either the newsletter or the church calendar
to see what’s happening at Pleasant Valley United Methodist Church.

Our doors are always open to anyone who wishes to come join us for worship, or
events at our church. We’d enjoy meeting you and sharing with you the love of
Jesus in our little church by the river!

May you all enjoy a very happy and healthy New Year!

Filed under: Uncategorized | Leave a comment >>

Epiphany!

Posted on January 6, 2016 by margofenn

Today is Epiphany and marks the journey of the 3 wise men as they follow the
star to the place where Jesus was born. These weary travelers brought gifts to
honor and worship the baby Christ. We too are on a journey of faith. We too
want to find the peace and joy of Christ. We too want to honor and worship Him.
What will your gift to the Christ Child be?

3wise01-349x250

Filed under: Uncategorized | Leave a comment >>

Happy New Year!

Posted on January 1, 2016 by margofenn

Well, Christmas is over and the New Year has arrived. Wait a minute, the good
news of Christmas is never ending so as the New Year begins and moves forward
remember the words of this special song….”Go tell it on the mountain, over the
hills and everywhere. Go tell it on the mountain that Jesus Christ is born”.
Spread the good news throughout the year. May the peace and joy of knowing
Christ be with you all!

newyear

Filed under: Uncategorized | Leave a comment >>

Christmas Services

Posted on December 14, 2015 by margofenn

This year our church will offer two services. The first, at 5:30 pm on
Thursday, December 24th, is geared for families with children. You are
encouraged to bring your little ones to the service to hear the story of Jesus’
birth, and all the amazing things that happened that night. We’re going to sing
Happy Birthday to Jesus!

The second service, scheduled for 11:00 pm, is a traditional candlelight
service. It will feature the old familiar hymns of joy and praise to welcome
our Savior to the world.

Joy to the world…the Lord is come! Let earth receive her king! Let every heart
prepare him room. And heaven and nature sing, and heaven and nature sing, and
heaven and heaven and nature sing!

Come join with us this year and welcome baby Jesus into your heart!

nativity

Filed under: Uncategorized | Leave a comment >>

Third Sunday in Advent

Posted on December 14, 2015 by margofenn

Light one candle for joy, one bright candle for joy. He brings joy to everyone;
He comes, He comes.

Come Lord Jesus, we are waiting for you! Joy to the world…our Savior reigns!!

advent3

Filed under: Uncategorized | Leave a comment >>

The December Link is here!

Posted on November 30, 2015 by margofenn

The December edition of our church newsletter, The Link, is now available
online. Just click on the Link tab at the top of the page and follow the links
to see what’s happening at Pleasant Valley United Methodist Church.

Filed under: Uncategorized | Leave a comment >>

Next Page >>

  • Categories

      □ Announcements
      □ Coffee Hour
      □ Letters from the Pastor
      □ Small Groups Ministries
      □ UMW
      □ Youth News
  • Archives

    Archives [Select Month  ]
  • For Blogsite Authors

      □ Register
      □ Log in
      □ Entries RSS
      □ Comments RSS
      □ Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
  • 

Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. The Digg 3 Column Theme.

Pleasant Valley United Methodist Church
Blog at WordPress.com. The Digg 3 Column Theme.
Follow

Follow “Pleasant Valley United Methodist Church”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
