
  • Home
  • Calendar
  • Weekly notice sheets
  • Prayer guidance
  • Sunday Services
  • Devotion Youth Project
  • Mid Week Groups
  • Meet the Minister
  • Meet the Team
  • Community Links
  • Find Us
  • Contact Us
  • Website Feedback
  • Links
  • Search
  • Photos

Welcome to Christchurch
 
Christchurch is a friendly, welcoming Methodist Church with families and
individuals of all ages and backgrounds, located in the centre of the beautiful
Wiltshire market town of Marlborough. We are part of the North Wiltshire
Methodist Circuit. We have many members from other backgrounds and play an
active part in ecumenical life in the town through Marlborough Churches
Together.
 
Front View of Christchurch
[19]                  
 
Sunday Mornings start at 9.00am with a service that is contemporary in
style. This is followed by 'Blessing you with Breakfast' at 9.45am, when all
are welcome to enjoy breakfast together in a relaxed, friendly atmosphere. At
10.30am we have a Worship service which is of a more traditional style and led
either by an ordained minister or one of our circuit lay preachers. A cre`che
is available during the 10.30 service. (Please check the calendar for any
variations to the service times on particular Sundays) 
 
We have a full time minister, Rev Heather Cooper,  who also looks after three
other Methodist churches in the area - Aldbourne, Pewsey and Ramsbury. We  have
a part time Administrator. The Devotion Youth Project youth worker, who works
with young people across the town, in conjunction with all the local churches,
is based at Christchurch.
 
On this site you will find information about all our activities. If you are 
new to the area or interested in finding our more, please get in touch. We look
forward to hearing from you!
 
 Youth group[18]  
 
We publish monthly prayer guidance sheets which are currently being based on
the Lord's Prayer. Anyone is welcome to join in. The only commitment is for
regular prayer. More information can be found here.
 
We have a lunch club which normally meets once a month at 12 noon on Sundays.
This is aimed principally at our seniors and anyone who would normally be alone
for their Sunday lunch. A small charge is made for which you will receive a
roast dinner (with vegetarian option), a sweet and the opportunity for
fellowship and a chat.
 
Oh, and we also have some great rooms for hire for your club, organisation or
family celebration! We can offer a selection of committee rooms or halls, with
kitchens, full cloakroom facilities (including disabled), and all the crockery,
cutlery, tables and chairs you need. Contact us for details and our
attractively low hire charges.
 
                   
 
 
 

 The Log In box on this page is for those who need access to information such
as rotas, financial reports or other sensitive or personal material that we do
not wish to display on the web to the whole world. If you would like to use
this facility for your group or activity please register below and get in touch
 via our feedback page..

  • Welcome to Christchurch
     
    Christchurch is a friendly, welcoming Methodist Church with families and
    individuals of all ages and backgrounds, located in the centre of the
    beautiful Wiltshire market town of Marlborough. We are part of the North
    Wiltshire Methodist Circuit. We have many members from other backgrounds
    and play an active part in ecumenical life in the town through Marlborough
    Churches Together.
     
    Front View of Christchurch
    [19]                  
     
    Sunday Mornings start at 9.00am with a service that is contemporary in
    style. This is followed by 'Blessing you with Breakfast' at 9.45am, when
    all are welcome to enjoy breakfast together in a relaxed, friendly
    atmosphere. At 10.30am we have a Worship service which is of a more
    traditional style and led either by an ordained minister or one of our
    circuit lay preachers. A cre`che is available during the 10.30 service.
    (Please check the calendar for any variations to the service times on
    particular Sundays) 
     
    We have a full time minister, Rev Heather Cooper,  who also looks after
    three other Methodist churches in the area - Aldbourne, Pewsey and
    Ramsbury. We  have a part time Administrator. The Devotion Youth Project
    youth worker, who works with young people across the town, in conjunction
    with all the local churches, is based at Christchurch.
     
    On this site you will find information about all our activities. If you
    are  new to the area or interested in finding our more, please get in
    touch. We look forward to hearing from you!
     
     Youth group[18]  
     
    We publish monthly prayer guidance sheets which are currently being based
    on the Lord's Prayer. Anyone is welcome to join in. The only commitment is
    for regular prayer. More information can be found here.
     
    We have a lunch club which normally meets once a month at 12 noon on
    Sundays. This is aimed principally at our seniors and anyone who would
    normally be alone for their Sunday lunch. A small charge is made for which
    you will receive a roast dinner (with vegetarian option), a sweet and the
    opportunity for fellowship and a chat.
     
    Oh, and we also have some great rooms for hire for your club, organisation
    or family celebration! We can offer a selection of committee rooms or
    halls, with kitchens, full cloakroom facilities (including disabled), and
    all the crockery, cutlery, tables and chairs you need. Contact us for
    details and our attractively low hire charges.
     
                       
     
     
     

    text

  • Login

    Username:[                    ]

    Password:[                    ]

    Remember me [ ]

    [Login]

    Forgotten Password | Register

    login

  • This Week at Christchurch

    Sunday 17th January
    9:00am   The ' 9 am '
    9:45am   Blessing You with Breakfast
    10:30am   Morning Worship

    calendar

  •  The Log In box on this page is for those who need access to information
    such as rotas, financial reports or other sensitive or personal material
    that we do not wish to display on the web to the whole world. If you would
    like to use this facility for your group or activity please register below
    and get in touch via our feedback page..

    text

  • Verse for the Day... View Verse of the Day

    dailyMessage

                                                             Bookmark and Share
                   Â© 2010 Christchurch All Rights Reserved
             This church website is powered by Church Edit | Help              
