The Season of Lent

Theme:
    Retreating Into the Wilderness with Jesus
Dates:
    Lent is a forty-day period before Easter. It begins on Ash Wednesday. We
    skip Sundays when we count the forty days, because Sundays commemorate the
    Resurrection. Lent begins on 10 February 2016 and ends on 26 March 2016,
    which is the day before Easter.

    In the Roman Catholic Church, Lent officially ends earlier than for the
    rest of us, at sundown on 5 April (Holy Thursday), with the beginning of
    the mass of the Lord’s Supper.

Colors:
    In most churches, the decorations are purple, the royal color, to prepare
    for the King. You can read more about color in worship
Scripture Readings:
    The Revised Common Lectionary appoints Scripture readings for use in
    worship during the Season of Lent.
The East:
    In Orthodox churches, this season is called the Great Lent. It begins on
    Clean Monday.
Special Days:
    Ash Wednesday, 13 February 2013
    The Annunciation, 25 March

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Lent is a season of soul-searching and repentance. It is a season for
reflection and taking stock. Lent originated in the very earliest days of the
Church as a preparatory time for Easter, when the faithful rededicated
themselves and when converts were instructed in the faith and prepared for
baptism. By observing the forty days of Lent, the individual Christian imitates
Jesus’ withdrawal into the wilderness for forty days. All churches that have a
continuous history extending before AD 1500 observe Lent. The ancient church
that wrote, collected, canonized, and propagated the New Testament also
observed Lent, believing it to be a commandment from the apostles. (See The
Apostolic Constitutions, Book V, Section III.)

If your church does not observe Lent, you can find out why.

You can read about fasting, which is a spiritual discipline that does not
involve starvation or dehydration. You can also read Honest to God for an
explanation of what we accomplish by observing Lent.

You can find out about Lenten fasting during medieval times e. The link even
includes a very interesting recipe!

The Western Church

Because Sunday is the day of the Resurrection, we skip over Sundays when we
calculate the length of Lent. Therefore, in the Western Church, Lent always
begins on Ash Wednesday, the seventh Wednesday before Easter.

In many countries, the last day before Lent (called Mardi Gras, Shrove Tuesday,
Carnival, or Fasching) has become a last fling before the solemnity of Lent.
For centuries, it was customary to fast by abstaining from meat during Lent,
which is why some people call the festival Carnival, which is Latin for
farewell to meat.

The Eastern Church

The Eastern Church does not skip over Sundays when calculating the length of
the Great Lent. Therefore, the Great Lent always begins on Clean Monday, the
seventh Monday before Easter, and ends on the Friday before Palm Sunday—using
of course the eastern date for Easter. The Lenten fast is relaxed on the
weekends in honor of the Sabbath (Saturday) and the Resurrection (Sunday). The
Great Lent is followed by Lazarus Saturday and Palm Sunday, which are feast
days, then the Lenten fast resumes on Monday of Holy Week. In the Eastern
Church, Holy Week is a separate season from the Great Lent.

But the Word “Lent” isn’t in the Bible!

The word “Bible” isn’t in the Bible, either! So what we’re really asking is the
origin of the name.

Originally, “Lent” was nothing more than the English name of the season between
winter and summer, the season when the snow melts and the flowers bloom. German
and Dutch have the same word, but with slightly different spelling. In German,
“Lenz” is the poetic word for “spring.” In Dutch, the word “lente” never
changed its meaning. It is still the name of the season between winter and
summer, and it is still used with that meaning in everyday life.

The church observance took place during the season of lent. In England, “Lent”
came to mean the observance rather than the season, leaving the season without
a name. Instead of saying stupid things like “Lent happens during lent,”
English-speaking people invented the word “spring.” Today, instead of calling
the seasons winter, lent, and summer, we call them winter, spring, and summer.
We use “Lent” instead of “spring” when we refer to the church season.

Special Days

The purpose of the liturgical calendar is to relive the major events in Jesus’
life in real time, which is why Lent is forty days long. If Jesus were born on
25 December, then His conception—thus also His incarnation—would have been nine
months earlier, on about 25 March. That is when the angel Gabriel would have
announced Jesus’ birth to Mary. Thus 25 March is known in the historic church
as The Annunciation.

Roughly speaking, the western Church consists of Protestants, Catholics, and
Anglicans. The eastern Church consists of the Eastern Orthodox churches, the
Oriental Orthodox churches, and the eastern-rite churches affiliated with the
Roman Catholic Church.

You can download a printable version of this page to use as a hand-out or a
bulletin insert.

Other Seasons

Advent | Christmas | Epiphany | Holy Week | Easter | After Pentecost

Starting Page > More Like This > Top of this Page

Copyright ©1995-2015 by the Rev. Kenneth W. Collins and his licensors. All
rights reserved.
You can get permission to use this material. You can also E write to Ken

  • The Word
      □ Jesus
      □ The Bible
      □ Speed Bumps
  • Worship
      □ About Worship
      □ About Holy Days
      □ About Christian Rites
      □ About the Calendar
      □ Find Holy Days
      □ Find a Psalm
      □ Plan a Service
      □ Make a Calendar
  • Lectionary
      □ About the Lectionary
      □ Texts for This Sunday
      □ Texts for Next Sunday
      □ The Sunday Lectionary
      □ The Daily Lectionary
  • Discipleship
      □ The Christian Life
      □ Explanations
      □ Hard Issues
      □ Questions
  • Reference
      □ Bible Study
      □ Church Architecture
      □ Church Organization
      □ Clergy Clothing
      □ Public Worship
      □ Terminology
      □ Theology
      □ List of All Terms
      □ Other Sources
  • Other Stuff
      □ Search This Site
      □ Scripture Index
      □ Downloads
      □ Bobo Stories
      □ Poetry
      □ External Links
  • About
      □ About Ken
      □ Contact Ken
      □ Ken's Policy
  • Start Page

 

