  Anglican Renewal Ministries of Canada Anglican Renewal Ministries of Canada

ARM Canada 30th Anniversary: 1985 to 2015

   

  • Home
  • Contact Us
  • Support ARM
  • Magazine
  • Prayer Coordinator
  • Prayer Requests
  • Schools of Renewal Ministry
  • Board Members
  • ARM History
  • Links

[bg_1]Welcome to our home on the web. If we may support you in prayer, please
submit a confidential prayer request. Check out our upcoming School of Renewal
Ministry. We also invite you to connect with us on Facebook. Thank you for
being our guest today.

Our annual Board Meeting and AGM will take place June 2-4, 2015, in Okotoks,
AB.

Our Vision: Rediscovering the Holy Spirit s refreshing presence in our lives
and in the church.

Our Mission: To offer times of refreshing so God s people may be empowered by
the Holy Spirit through teaching, equipping and fellowship in the love of
Jesus. (Acts 3:19-21)

Support Anglican Renewal Ministries: Donations may be made securely online
through Canada Helps. Our charity registration number is: 11878 7126 RR0001.

Donate Now Through CanadaHelps.org!

Our Statements of Faith: ARM Canada believes that Jesus Christ is Saviour and
Lord and the only way to the Father; it accepts the authority of Holy Scripture
and affirms that the Holy Spirit empowers authentic wor-ship and ministry. ARM
Canada seeks to contribute towards spiritual renewal among Christians both
personally and corporately, and to be of service to the Anglican Church.

ARM Canada believes that God has sent his Holy Spirit to the Church to enable
the ministry and Christ-centered witness of his people as revealed in the New
Testament. ARM Canada en-courages its supporters to become involved in all
aspects of church life at the parish, diocesan and national levels.

Our Prayer Request: Anglican Renewal Ministries of Canada asks for your
continued prayer for the work of the Ministry in general and particularly for
its leaders. We ask for your prayers that each of us may be faithful to our
Lord's calling through the power of the Holy Spirit in our own lives and in the
direction and work of ARM. We have been freshly called to bring renewal to the
Church we love and are hopeful that people will be blessed through what God is
doing. Please also pray for us in the wake of our 25th anniversary as we seek
to be faithful to our calling, and to the vision and mission of ARM Canada.

1 Tim 2:1-2 Therefore I exhort first of all that supplications, prayers,
intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men, for kings and all who
are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness
and reverence. (NKJ)


