Danny Yee's Book Reviews
Subjects | Titles | Authors | Best Books | Search | Latest

The Cathars

Malcolm Lambert

Blackwell 1998
A book review by Danny Yee (C) 1999 http://dannyreviews.com/
A rather dense academic survey, Lambert's The Cathars is really for the
specialist rather than the general reader. (I don't know, however, that there
is a popular general introduction to Catharism: most of the more accessible
books focus on Languedoc and the Albigensian crusade.) Lambert takes a
chronological and regional approach, addressing issues of doctrine and
institutional structure as they arise. He begins with chapters on heresy in
Western Europe before the eleventh century and on the Bogomils and early
Catharism in the Rhineland; he finishes with chapters on Pierre Autier and the
brief revival of Catharism around the beginning of the fourteenth century, on
the decline of Italian Catharism, and on the Bosnian Church. In between he
covers the rise of Catharism in the Languedoc and the Catholic response, from
Innocent III and the launching of the crusade to the gradual formalisation of
the Inquisition.

It was the material on the Italian and Bosnian Cathars that I found most
interesting. In Languedoc doctrinal differences were not critical and a broadly
unified church structure persisted. In Italy, in contrast, allegiances to
competing Eastern ordo and conflicts over doctrine split Cathars into separate
communities: Lambert sorts through the evidence to reveal their differences in
theology and organisation. The complex political balance in Italy between
cities, Guelf and Ghibelline factions, papacy, and empire resulted in
idiosyncratic variations in the treatment of Cathars, but their survival was
generally assisted by the unwillingness of independent cities to grant church
authorities the powers needed for forcible suppression. The Inquisition and lay
Catholic confraternities certainly helped it along, but Catharism's gradual
decline in Italy was largely due to changes in the Catholic Church which
reduced its appeal. (Cathar remnants in the Alps, syncretising with
Waldensianism, survived until the early fifteenth century.) The history of the
Bosnian Church took a very different course. "[W]hen heretics had authority,
freedom and a landed endowment ... [t]heir leaders became virtually
indistinguishable from the wealthy and powerful hierarchies of either the
Catholic or Orthodox Churches of the time."

October 1999

External links:
    - buy from Amazon.com or Amazon.co.uk

Related reviews:
    - books about Christianity + Christian history
    - more medieval history
    - books published by Blackwell

%T The Cathars
%A Lambert, Malcolm
%I Blackwell
%D 1998
%O paperback, references, index
%G ISBN 063120959X
%P 344pp
Subjects | Titles | Authors | Best Books | Search | Latest
Book Reviews by Danny Yee
