logo

  • Home
  • Gallery
  • Accommodation
  • Facilities
  • Attractions
  • Reviews
  • Contact Us
  • Bookings

Photo courtesy of Michael Young

[22WP_20140]

Accommodation & Facilities

Castlereagh Christian Conference Centre provides great accommodation for 20 to
48 people and associated conference facilities for up to 100 for your next camp
or retreat.

more
[_IGP0224]

Attractions

We are handy to a wide selection of other activities and attractions which can
add offsite options to your stay here at Castlereagh.

more
[_IGP0235]

Gallery

Visit our Gallery to get the feel of our Centre, a glimpse of the natural
beauty of our Grounds, and an appreciation of our heritage surroundings.


more
[WP_2015060]

Booking Enquiry

Seen enough to interest you? Then click on the link below and download our
Booking Enquiry form. Just fill It in and email to us and we will Advise
availability and costs.

more

Welcome

Just 4km from the heart of Penrith but a world away in time and tranquility,
Castlereagh Christian Conference Centre provides great accommodation for 20 to
48 people and associated conference facilities for up to 100 for your next camp
or retreat. Our Centre is on the edge of the Penrith Lakes Scheme, adjacent to
the Sydney International Regatta Centre and comprises principal elements of the
Upper Castlereagh Heritage Precinct with continuous historical links back to
1815.

Our campsite has been developed as a retreat and conference facility to:

  • Explore Christian Living;
  • Establish a resident centre for spirituality;
  • Be a Christian presence in a world of sport, recreation and leisure;
  • Retain and care for the remaining vestiges of colonial and convict
    Methodist origins.

Your Experience

[quote_icon]

While our guest on this heritage site, may you experience the reality of
William Carey’s Motto...

"Expect great things from God - Attempt great things for God."

William Carey

Telephone

+61 2 4729 0012

E-Mail Us

academyaccom@bigpond.com

Address

297 - 305 Old Castlereagh Road
Castlereagh NSW 2749

copyright (C)

