↓

Saint Anne's Parish

Roman Catholic Diocese of Fall River

Saint Anne's Parish
Home Menu ↓
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content

  • Home
  • About
      □ Contact
          ☆ Safe Environment Program
      □ Directions
      □ History
      □ Join us
      □ The church’s architecture
      □ Who is Saint Anne?
  • Devotions
  • e-Community
      □ Parishioner Update Form
      □ Sunday Bulletin
      □ Wish List
  • Gallery
      □ Centennial celebration
      □ Inside the church
      □ Miscellaneous
      □ Statues in the shrine
  • Liturgy/Sacraments
      □ Baptism of a child
      □ Baptism of an adult
      □ Confession / Reconciliation
          ☆ The Seven Deadly Sins — and their Remedies
      □ Confirmation
      □ Funeral planning
      □ Mass schedule
      □ Weddings
  • Online-giving
  • Outreach
  • Saint Anne’s Faith Formation
      □ Catholic Bible Study
      □ CCD Registration
  • Staff
  • Supporters
      □ Annual collection
      □ Friends of St. Anne’s Shrine
      □ Lenten collection
      □ Pledges to St. Anne’s
      □ Stewardship

Home 1 2 3 4 5 >>

The lower church ("shrine") is open daily to the public from 8:00 am to 6:00
pm. Shrine is open on weekdays for funerals and weddings.
The upper church is not available until further notice on Saturdays, Sundays
and some Holy Days,
and on weekdays for funerals and weddings. If you would like to donate online
please click the Online Giving link. Thank you.

Post navigation

← Older posts

The upper Church restoration meeting on Dec 29, 2015

Posted on January 7, 2016 by adminJanuary 8, 2016

Saint Anne Church is undergoing numerous financial projects including paying
parish loans, diocesan fees, needy up keeping of our Shrine and the upper
Church with limited parish staff. The following are minutes of the parish
meeting on December 29, 2015

Upper Church restoration discussion was related to: 1. Tax assessment 2.
Restoration proposal for upper Church A. $64K repair of external upper church
damage B. Insurance Claim for damage C. Financing for restoration (including
windows) D. Plans for St. Anne’s Parish 3. Insurance premiums lowered 4.
Elevator fine A. with an appeal by December 30th

 Highlights of the meeting with Chancellor Paul Kawa, President of St. Anne’s
Pastoral Council, the Finance Assistant Phil Gregoire and Fr. Chris Stanibula,
Parochial Administrator on December 29, 2015:

 1)     Discussion about maybe getting OK to get money with restrictions from
the city that will reopen Upper Church to see  if in fact we can pursue that as
an option or not.

 2)     Phil Gregoire gave Paul Kawa a copy of the estimate from Egan’s company
in addition to his  summary.      

3)     We DO NOT need to have Palanza do the work or need his approval which is
a good thing.

4)     Chancellor Paul Kawa will check insurance coverage again to determine if
they can lower our invoice in 2016 (perhaps by lowering coverage amounts and
such).

5)     Paul mentioned possibility of our raising the $68K to do the roof work.

6)     Paul will meeting with the insurance department to see if in fact we can
get money from the damage claim we opened in July 2015.  This could help with
the roof  restoration work.

7)     The insurance fine is something that the Diocese is familiar with and
has had the  same issue with many parishes.  I mentioned that we had never been
informed of this  fine until nine months later.  He stated that it was not
uncommon for the state to do   this.  All the paperwork has already been sent
to the Diocese for the appeal.

8)     Phil Gregoire is getting in touch with Egan Company to get a process
whereby they can have an engineer certify the soundness of the church in
conjunction with the roof work.  This was recommended by Paul so that we could
kill two birds with one stone.

These highlights from the meeting were prepared by Phil Gregoire. 
restoration.estimate

 

Posted in Uncategorized

First Confessions

Posted on December 25, 2015 by adminDecember 23, 2015

Sunday, December 27 

[thumbs_st-]

First Reconciliation

We look forward to working with you and your child in this ongoing life-long
learning in their development as full, active Catholics. The Sacrament of
Reconciliation grows out of the Penitential Act we practice each Sunday at
Mass. Our emphasis on the family’s role in reconciliation grows out of the
reality that it is within the home that most of us learn to love, to forgive,
and to be forgiven. In this sacrament we come to God with the knowledge that we
sin, that our sin hurts our community and ourselves, and that God is anxious to
forgive and heal any broken bonds.

The parish priest will hear the first confessions of our 2nd-grade Religious
Education students this coming Sunday in the Shrine beginning at 11:00 am. Many
blessings to you ! Just let him know it’s your first Confession; he will put
you at ease and help you through it and be so glad you’ve come to receive the
graces of our Lord.

Posted in Liturgical Events, Religious Education

Christmas

Posted on December 9, 2015 by adminDecember 24, 2015

By Martha Noebel. It’s that time of year again. December has come and with it
all the joys of Christmas. But what is the real meaning of Christmas? IsCrèche
with Baby Jesus it the gifts under the tree, the lights in the windows, the
cards in the mail, special dinners with family and friends, snow in the yard,
stockings hanging in the living room, and shouts of “Merry Christmas” to those
who pass us in the streets? Is this really Christmas?

Christmas is the gift of Jesus offering us salvation. For many people,
Christmas is a time of sorrow. Many are saddened at Christmastime when they
think of their loved ones who will not be able to come home for various
reasons. Yet, Christmas can be a season of great joy. It is a time of God
showing His great love for us. It can be a time of healing and renewed
strength. Christmas is when we celebrate the birth of the Christ child. God
sent His Son, Jesus, into the world to be born. His birth brought great joy to
the world. Shepherds, wise men, and angels all shared in the excitement of
knowing about this great event. They knew this was no ordinary baby. The
prophets had told of His coming hundreds of years before. The star stopped over
Bethlehem just to mark the way for those who were looking for this special
child.

Through the sins of Adam and Eve, we have all inherited that sin nature. We
need to have that removed. The only way is through Jesus. Jesus came so He
could die on the tree of the cross for ALL of our sins. If we believe that
Jesus died for our sins, we can ask Him to come into our hearts and forgive us.
Then, we are clean and made whole. We can know that by Jesus’s salvation we
inherit eternal life. But if we confess our sins to him, he is faithful and
just to forgive us and to cleanse us from every wrong.” I John 1:9 We can truly
be happy at Christmas! No matter what may be happening, we can know that we are
His children. We become sons and daughters of God.

Then, look at Christmas in a new way this year. This is the year to invite
Jesus into your heart. You will then have a “Merry Christmas.” The joy and
peace you will receive will last all year as you look to God for all your needs
to be met.

Jesus Is The Reason For The Season! Rejoice!

nativity

Thursday, December 24th  ✶  Christmas Eve

11:00 am – Confessions (shrine)

4:00 pm Vigil Mass (preceded by choir concert)

Friday, December 25th  ✹  Christmas Day

10:00 am Solemn Mass with incense

4:00 pm Mass

Dear Friends in Christ,

Welcoming the Prince of Peace

One of the questions faced by humanity which theologians, spiritual writers and
thinkers throughout the centuries have tried to answer is: Why did God chose to
save the world the way he did, by sending his only Son Jesus, to come and
become one of us, to be subjected to the human condition, to suffering and
death? Could God have done it differently, by the simple act of His word? There
is a passage in the third chapter of the Gospel of John which may shed some
light on this question. “For God so loved the world that he gave his only Son,
so that everyone who believes in him might not perish but might have eternal
life.” (John 3:16)

God knew that with only His word we would not be convinced of his love and
mercy; He knew we would need much more to change our lives and be converted in
order to be saved. He knew we would need the presence of Jesus, we would need
to see Jesus’ acceptance of God’s plan, Jesus’ willingness to empty himself of
His godliness and become one of us. God knew we would need Jesus’ witnessing to
the Father’s love and mercy for all of humanity to the point of giving His son
to die for us. As pope Francis said when he announced the Jubilee Year of
Mercy, “Jesus Christ is the face of the Father’s mercy”. Therefore, Jesus’
presence made all the difference.

The importance and meaning of Christmas is the gift of Jesus’ presence. First,
we need to recognize His presence within ourselves, in our lives, our families,
and our world. Then, once we accept His presence in our lives, we too become
signs of His presence in the lives of others. In a time when individualism is
emphasized, defended in every aspect of life and in every corner of the world,
we need to recognize that none of us was made to be in isolation or to live for
oneself.

During this year that is coming to an end, our world has seen so much
suffering, violence and pain. We have witnessed terrorist attacks, endless
wars, the shed of innocent blood, loss of innocent lives, so many hopelessly
leaving behind their homes, their land, their history and seeking a future as
refugees. We have seen children, too young to understand what is happening to
them and their families, losing their lives too early.

When Jesus was born, the angel appeared to the shepherds and told them: “Glory
to God in the highest and on earth peace to those on whom his favor rests.”
(Lk. 2:14)  When we welcome Jesus, embrace Him, hear His word, accept his
teaching, and see his presence in our brothers and sisters, the peace that only
God can give, will be truly ours.

My profound desire this Christmas and my wish to all my brothers and sisters in
the Diocese of Fall River, is for the gift of the peace of Christ to reign in
their homes, their hearts and their lives. My prayer is also for peace to
prevail in our troubled and suffering world. My hope is that in 2016, all
humanity may experience harmony and understanding regardless of race, color or
religion. My wish is that there may be an end to racial discrimination and to
religious persecution; that   refugees find homes, orphans find families, the
unemployed find jobs, and that we all find enduring peace.

                                                    Sincerely yours in the
Lord,

                                                       Most Reverend Edgar M.
da Cunha, S.D.V.

Bishop of Fall River

Thursday, December 31  ✹  St. Sylvester, New Year’s Eve

cmass11:00 am – Confessions (shrine)

11:30 Mass

4:00 PM Mass

New Year, Friday, January 1, 2016  ✹  

Our Church observes the Solemnity of Mary, Mother of God on this day. It is a
holy day of obligation. Please attend our Mass at

11:30 AM

Happy New Year 2016!

Another year starts and with it, new hopes and aspirations – a faint desire
that sprouts in every human heart that speaks of happiness, prosperity and
goodness to come. Happy New Year with warmest wishes. Thank you for your
support throughout the entire year.

Posted in Liturgical Events

Feast of the Immaculate Conception

Posted on December 1, 2015 by adminNovember 2, 2015

Tuesday, December 8th

Mary’s being conceived without original sin distinguished her from the holiest
of the saints, since they, one and all, were sinners. Her perfect sinlessness—a
singular privilege and grace of almighty God—was the source of all her glory;
it was this which opened the door to the unlimited graces that she received
from God; it was this that qualified her to be the mother of our divine Savior
and hers, and raised her to her throne as Queen of heaven.
rubens_immaculate-conception-210x300

Patronal Feast-day of the U.S.A.

[ All Masses in the lower church ]

 

11:00 am Confessions

11:30 am  Mass

Posted in Liturgical Events

All Souls’ Day

Posted on October 21, 2015 by adminNovember 5, 2015

 November 2nd

mass-req On All Souls’ Day we pray and offer Mass for all the souls in the
purifying state of Purgatory, but especially those of our relatives, friends,
benefactors, and enemies. It is a pious belief that God manifests to them our
prayers for them, that they also may pray for us. 11:30 am.

 

 Community Preservation Committee Meeting, Fall River

Please find enclosed notes from the Community Preservation Committee Meeting
prepared by the generosity of Deacon Alan Thadeu
Meeting with the Community Preservation Committee (CPC)
Fall River City Hall – Council Meeting Room
Monday, November 2, 2015 6:00 PM

Attending on behalf of Saint Anne and the Diocese
Philippe Gregoire – President, Saint Anne Parish Council
Deacon Alan Thadeu – Asst. Finance Officer
Deacon Tom Palanza – Facilities  Consultant
Reverend Christopher Stanibula, Administrator of Saint Anne

The purpose of the meeting was for the Committee to determine and vote on the
eligibility of the proposed projects.  Most applicants did not have
representative present so I believe we made a positive impression with our
level of commitment. The project was approved due to the iconic nature of the
church building.  Now we move on to the detailed financial application due
February 1,  2016.  However, it was strongly suggested that our application for
funding include a descriptive section stressing the impact of the closure of
the church to the community at large and not simply focus of the worship needs
of the Saint Anne’s parishioners. CPC funding is derived from the City’s
taxpayers through a surcharge on their real estate bills and this would ease
any concerns of using taxpayer money on a religious house of worship. What was
very clear at the conclusion of the meeting was the need for the Diocese to
make a decision if we are going to move forward as this next phase of the
application process will be costly in both time and money and there are a
number of restrictions that will be placed upon the Diocese if we accept any
CPC funds. There would, however, be no restriction on how we use the building
i.e. the CPC cannot  determine who may enter the building or at what time; how
the church is used, etc.
Restrictions include:
 A preservation restriction will be placed on the deed, in perpetuity, which
can be applied on the outside, inside or both building envelopes. It will be
binding on any future owner, no doubt affecting the value of the property were
we to sell it.
 If we close the church, we would be required to maintain it in its historical
condition. Any work to the building, unless minor or emergency in nature would
have to be approved by the CPC/Historical Commission.
 It prohibits any changes to the building that would alter the historical/
architectural features of the building. It will prevent any future demolition
of the building.
 The planned repair work could not begin until the release of funding –
projected to be July 2016. Any work completed would need to meet the Secretary
of the Interior Standards. The Committee understands that not everything can be
done at once.  But since there is no set  amount of funds available each year,
and as more groups take advantage of whatever funds are available, no future
commitment of funding can be made.  And it is unlikely the CPC will fund the
entire amount of any project – instead relying on some level of matching funds
provided by the applicant.

The CPC seems adamant in their belief that completing any interior plaster
repairs would not be logical until we examine and repair any roof leaks and
repoint the exterior areas adjacent to the internal damaged areas.  Although
this has some validity, this would add significant cost and time to this
project.
The CPC is recommending (and will provide names) we hire an Architectural
Historian (AH) and a Structural Engineer (SE) to assist us in preparing our
final proposal.  The AH would be able to advise us as to the level of work
necessary to bring the interior damaged sections up to the standards required
for historical preservation.  The SE would be able to confirm that the building
interior is structurally sound and should go far to meet the requirements to
reopen the main worship space.  Mr. Antone Dias, a member of the CPC again
pointed out his disagreement with the actions in closing the main church
because of falling plaster. […]

If we are going to move forward with the CPC funding application, we need to
decide if we are going to hire the Architectural Historian and a Structural
Engineer so we can begin preparing a detailed scope of work and cost
projections.  The February 1, 2016 deadline is not that far away.

Posted in Faith Enrichment

All Saints’ Day – The Holy Day of Obligation this year

Posted on October 20, 2015 by adminOctober 12, 2015

 November 1st

On All Saints’ Day the Church commemorates all the Saints in heaven without
exception, and so honors also those who are unknown and who have no public
recognition in the Liturgy.
All-Saints
10: 00 am

 

6:30 pm Solemn Mass

 

Posted in Liturgical Events

The annual candlelight procession and Saint Mary’s Cathedral Mass

Posted on September 24, 2015 by adminSeptember 24, 2015

Saint Mary’s Cathedral Mass for peace on Columbus day.

Mary_Rosary-3More than 2000 faithful Christians with parish priests participate
in the annual candlelight procession and Saint Mary’s Cathedral Mass for peace
on Columbus day. This years, marchers met 5:45 p.m. at St. Anne’s Church
on Middle Street, Fall River, to march approximately one-half mile to St.
Mary’s Cathedral on the Second Street. The procession begins at 6:00 p.m.
Marchers with Diocesan Bishop da Cunha will carry candles, recite the rosary
and sing Marian hymns in various languages. At approximately 7 p.m. Bishop
Edgar M. da Cunha, S.D.V., will celebrate a Mass for Peace at St. Mary’s
Cathedral. Those who are disabled or handicapped should proceed directly to St.
Mary’s Cathedral, where a special area will be designated for them. The
Procession and Mass for Peace has been held annually in the diocese since 1975.

Posted in Uncategorized

The Seven Deadly Sins — and their Remedies

Posted on August 16, 2015 by adminAugust 16, 2015
Reply

The disorder introduced into our human nature by Adam’s fall from grace reveals
itself especially through seven dominant vices known in our Catholic tradition
as the capital sins. These are: pride, avarice, lust, anger, gluttony, envy,
and sloth. We call them “capital” sins (from the Latin caput, meaning “head”)
because they are the sources or fountainheads of all the sins people commit,
whether sins of commission or sins of omission. We call them “deadly” because
they cause spiritual death; Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen liked to call them the
“seven pallbearers of the soul.”

Spiritual growth is impossible unless we try to dig up the roots of our sins
with the help of God’s illuminating and sanctifying grace.

Pride

The first of the seven deadly sins is pride, defined as inordinate self-esteem
or self-importance. Pride is the prolific source of countless sins, including
presumption, hypocrisy, disobedience to lawful superiors, hardheartedness to
subordinates, acrimony, and boastfulness. Some of the ways in which sinful
pride manifests itself are: exaggerating one’s own talents, attributing to
oneself qualities one lacks, magnifying other people’s defects, putting other
people down, ingratitude, and failing to attribute one’s gifts and talents to
God.

We know from Sacred Scripture that pride is the bottleneck of all graces (Jas
4:6); that it is self-ruinous (Lk 14:11); that God hates it (Prov 8:13) and
punishes it (Prov 16:5); and that it deprives one’s good works of merit in
God’s sight because it makes one perform them with a wrong intention (cf. Mt
6:1-2).

Humility, or poverty of spirit, is the opposite of pride. Just as pride is the
foundational sin, so humility is the foundational virtue and thus ranks first
among the Beatitudes (Mt 5:3). The virtue of humility makes us indifferent to
worldly power, prestige and riches, so that we might keep our focus on God, who
alone is our supreme joy.

“Learn of me,” Jesus tells us, “because I am meek and humble of heart” (Mt
11:29). Imagine our divine Savior in His Passion, undergoing the cruelest
torments yet uttering no complaint and showing no resentment (cf. 1 Pt 2:23).
Then pray: From the sin of pride deliver me, O Lord.

Avarice

Avarice, also known as covetousness or greed, is defined as the immoderate
desire of earthly goods, especially those that belong to others. Of the Ten
Commandments, two regulate not only our external actions but even our internal
desires. These are the ninth and tenth commandments, both of which forbid
avarice (“You shall not covet…”).

St Paul calls avarice the “root of all evils” (1 Tim 6:10). Robbery, theft,
fraud, parsimony, and callousness toward the poor all stem from avarice. But
there are more subtle forms of avarice that may blind us to the sinfulness of
our actions. Some people imagine that just because they found some money or
personal belongings, the items belong to them (“Finders keepers!”).
Unscrupulous contractors put in time not required for the job at hand, or use
inferior materials at a higher price. Gambling, playing the stock market, and
purchasing goods on credit are not in themselves sinful, but they become sins
if a person risks loss so great that he cannot pay his debts and support his
dependents. Advertisers convince us that we must have the latest fashions or
models, when we could just as well continue to use our serviceable appliances,
clothing, cars, smartphones, etc.

St Francis de Sales says that everyone claims to abhor avarice. We wax eloquent
when we explain how we must have the necessary things to get along in the
world. But we never think we have enough, so we always find ourselves wanting
more. How often do we include avarice in our examination of conscience or bring
it up in confession?

We can enjoy the goods of this world, but we must be on guard not to become
unduly attached to them and thus fall into idolatry (cf. Eph 5:5). God alone is
our supreme happiness. Of all people, Christians should not be overly concerned
with earthly goods; for our heavenly Father has care of us (cf. Mt 6:31-32).
Does this mean we should neglect our duties and occupations? Certainly not. It
means that, while attending to our affairs, we must not neglect the affairs of
the soul. “Seek first [God’s] Kingdom and His righteousness,” Our Lord
promises, “and all these things shall be yours as well” (Mt 6:33).

Mercy is the virtue that opposes avarice. Peter Kreeft writes in Back to Virtue
 that avarice is “the centrifugal reach to grab and keep the world’s goods for
oneself,” whereas mercy is “the centripetal reach to give, to share the world’s
goods with others.” Mercy is the antidote to the greed that poisons the soul.

“Learn of me,” Jesus tells us, “because I am meek and humble of heart” (Mt
11:29). Imagine our Savior, whose Passion depicts a progressive impoverishment.
He is abandoned by most of His disciples, then stripped of all honor and
finally of life itself. Then pray: From the sin of avarice deliver me, O Lord.

Envy

Of the seven deadly sins, envy is the only one that gives us no pleasure at
all, not even fleeting satisfaction. Envy is defined as sadness over another’s
happiness, blessings or achievements, such that we should want to see the other
person deprived of those goods, and we are happy when he has actually lost
them. Like all sins, envy proceeds from the foundational sin of pride, which
cannot tolerate a superior or a rival. It takes many different forms, including
annoyance at hearing another person praised, depreciating the good reputation
of others by speaking ill of them, and desiring to eclipse others even by
questionable methods.

Envy poisons our whole being. Because Cain was envious of his brother Abel, he
“was very angry, and his countenance fell” (Gen 4:5). Because the sons of Jacob
envied their brother Joseph, “they hated him, and could not speak peaceably to
him” (Gen 37:4). Because Saul was envious of David, he “eyed David from that
day on” (1 Sam 18:9). “Jealousy and anger shorten life, and anxiety brings on
old age too soon” (Sir 30:24).

St Paul places envy among the works of the flesh and declares that “those who
do such things shall not inherit the Kingdom of God” (Gal 5:19-21). He bids us
“conduct ourselves becomingly as in the day, not in … quarreling and jealousy”
(Rom 13:13). In private matters, envy produces angry words (1 Cor 1:11) and
harmful deeds (Jas 3:16). In public matters, it breeds war, symbolized in the
Apocalypse by the rider on the red horse who was given power “to take peace
from the earth, so that men should slay one another, and he was given a great
sword” (Rev 6:4; the sword stands for war). Among Christians, discord born of
envy can lead to the sin of schism, or separation from the universal Church,
which is what the Apostle feared would happen in the Christian community at
Corinth (1 Cor 11:18-19). And envy can make priests and vowed religious resent
their celibacy when they see happily married people.

Generosity is the opposite of envy. Whereas envy brings only sorrow and pain,
generosity is the seedbed of joy. This should come as no surprise, since we are
created in the divine image. We are truly happy insofar as we are conformed to
God the Holy Trinity, whose very essence is self-giving love and receptivity.
St Anselm of Canterbury teaches that our ultimate joy in heaven will be
increased by the absence of envy: “If anyone else whom you love as much as
yourself possessed the same blessedness, your joy would be doubled because you
would rejoice as much for him as for yourself.”

“Learn of me,” Jesus tells us, “because I am meek and humble of heart” (Mt
11:29). Imagine our divine Savior before Pontius Pilate, delivered up out of
envy by the chief priests (Mk 15:9-10). Then pray: From the sin of envy deliver
me, O Lord.

Anger

Fourth on the list of the seven deadly sins is anger, or “wrath” in Old
English. What most people mean by “anger” is often not a sin, but simply an
emotional response to a perceived injustice, wrongdoing or annoyance. Such was
Our Lord’s anger at the money-changers in the Temple (Mk 11:15-19).

Just as it is wrong to be angry without cause, so it is wrong not to be angry
when there is cause. Peter Kreeft illustrates the point in Back to Virtue: “To
be angry at the lawyer who got the drug pusher free on a technicality is not
sinful, especially when your son is lying in a coffin after an overdose from
that pusher.” A more common example of anger that is not sinful but righteous
is that of a parent at the misconduct of a child, provided the parent’s
response is not excessive. The parent still loves the child but is angry at the
child’s bad behavior.

Alas, Original Sin has invaded every corner of our soul. Consequently, anger is
often a violent, inordinate desire accompanied by hatred or vengefulness. If
anger is unreasonable and therefore too strong for the occasion or the person
at whom we are angry, it can be a mortal sin. Whereas righteous anger wills
what is good (justice and correction), sinful anger wills evil (“Damn you!”).
As a capital sin, anger easily gives rise to many grave sins, including murder:
“For the stirring of milk brings forth curds, and the stirring of anger brings
forth blood” (Prov 30:33). “Pitch and resin make fires flare up, and insistent
quarrels provoke bloodshed” (Sir 28:11). God warned Cain when Cain grew angry
because God favored Abel and not him; but instead of heeding God’s advice, Cain
nourished his resentment and finally murdered Abel (Gen 4:6-8).

The Letter of St James cautions: “Everyone should be quick to hear, slow to
speak, slow to wrath, for the wrath of a man does not accomplish the
righteousness of God” (Jas 1:19). And St Paul exhorts: “Be angry but do not
sin; do not let the sun set on your anger, and do not leave room for the devil”
(Eph 4:26).

Meekness is the virtue that helps us to control anger. “Blessed are the meek,
for they will inherit the land” (Mt 5:5). The essence of meekness is not
weakness, but the combination of strength and gentleness, the ability to use
force when necessary and the gentleness to forego it.

“Learn of me,” Jesus tells us, “because I am meek and humble of heart” (Mt
11:29). Imagine our divine Savior, the Suffering Servant whose mercy Isaiah
prophecies: “A bruised reed he shall not break, and a smoldering wick he shall
not quench” (Isa 42:3). Precisely because Christ loved sinners, He rebuked them
(often scathingly!), but was always ready to suffer harm rather than inflict
it. Then pray: From the sin of anger deliver me, O Lord.

Lust

Since the sexual revolution of the 1960s, our Western culture has said that sex
has no intrinsic relation to procreation, or even to love and intimacy. Not
surprisingly, then, these intervening years have brought permissive abortion,
no-fault divorce, legalized prostitution, the mainstreaming of pornography, and
the redefinition of marriage to include same-sex couples. Behind this
devaluation of sex is the deadly sin of lust, which the Catechism of the
Catholic Church defines as “disordered desire for or inordinate enjoyment of
sexual pleasure” (no. 2351). Reclaim your sexual health

The Catholic Church has always taught that sexual pleasure is morally
permissible only to married people and only when they use it in the way God
intends. Regrettably, Christian morality in general and Christian sexual
morality in particular are often seen as arbitrary rules imposed by God or the
Church to keep people from enjoying life’s pleasures. Pope John Paul II’s
“Theology of the Body,” based largely on the Book of Genesis, casts traditional
sexual morality in a fresh light. George Weigel provides a fine overview of the
pope’s approach in The Truth of Catholicism. In sum, the only sex worthy of men
and women made in God’s image is sex that expresses complete and irrevocable
self-giving, not a use (or abuse) of another for fleeting gratification. The
self-giving that defines real love implies openness to the gift of new human
life, just as God’s love “burst the boundaries of God’s inner life and poured
itself forth in creation.” It is immoral to separate sex from commitment (as in
fornication and adultery) or from procreation (as in contraceptive and
homosexual acts).

Sodom’s destruction was divine punishment for sexual vice (Gen 19:24-25). Our
bodies are temples of the living God (2 Cor 6:16), and we should control them
“in holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust like heathen” (1 Thes
4:3-5). Impurity should not even be mentioned among Christians, never mind
practiced (Eph 5:3-4). Lust enslaves the will, destroys love of prayer, weakens
faith, hardens the heart, and fills the conscience with dissatisfaction.

The opposite of lust is chastity, a species of that blessed “purity of heart”
(Mt 5:8) and one of the fruits of the Holy Spirit (Gal 5:22-23). Sexual
feelings, fantasies and desires will ebb and flow as naturally as the appetite
for food and drink; these are perfectly natural and human. The chaste person
subordinates these to God’s will. Chastity is a life’s task requiring reliance
on prayer and the grace of the sacraments. It demands common sense, too. When
Jesus said the desire for adultery is itself adultery (Mt 5:28), He was
following the Jewish tradition of “building a wall around the Torah (Law),”
that is, forbidding a less serious offense so as to avoid a more grievous one.
The great saints of God shut their eyes and ears from everything that could be
for them an occasion of impurity.

“Learn of me,” Jesus tells us, “because I am meek and humble of heart” (Mt
11:29). Imagine our divine Savior, who loved selflessly even to the point of
surrendering His life for sinners (cf. Phil 2:8). Then pray: From the sin of
lust deliver me, O Lord.

Gluttony

Eating and drinking are necessary for our self-preservation. To facilitate
these two functions, God has attached a certain pleasure to them. The pursuit
of this pleasure as an end in itself, however, is the deadly sin of gluttony.
Most people identify gluttony with eating or drinking excessively. They are
correct, but gluttony takes other forms too: fussiness about the quality or
presentation of one’s food; eating too hastily, too hoggishly, too sumptuously,
or too often. Father Benedict Ashley, O.P., in Living the Truth in Love,
explains that “individual acts of gluttony are not ordinarily seriously harmful
and therefore are venial, but habits that seriously harm health (at least in
the short range), if not corrected, are mortal.” (Of course, in assessing the
gravity of any human act, we must remember that subjective factors such as
chemical dependency or neurotic compulsion can lessen the degree of guilt.)

As one of the seven deadly sins, gluttony paves the way for more grievous
offenses. Drunkenness caused Noah’s disgrace (Gen 9:20-27), Lot’s incest (Gen
19:30-38), and the decadence both of the pagan Persians (Est 1:6-10) and of the
Jewish priests and prophets (Isa 28:7-8). Esau sold his birthright for a bowl
of pottage, a kind of bean stew (Gen 25:29-34). Gluttony was the cause of
liturgical abuses within the Christian community at Corinth (1 Cor 11:21). St
Paul calls gluttons idolaters “whose god is their belly” (Phil 3:19).

Because man is a unity of soul and body, the Church has always insisted that
the body must be disciplined as well as the soul. “Scripture’s cure for
gluttony is not dieting but fasting,” writes Peter Kreeft in Back to Virtue.
“Fasting, in addition to reducing weight, reduces gluttony and, best of all, is
a form of prayer. It is recommended to us on the very highest authority, that
of our Lord himself.” Saints Augustine, Jerome, and John Cassian are but three
of the many Church Fathers and spiritual writers who extolled periodic fasting.
Latin-rite Catholics are obliged to fast on Ash Wednesday and Good Friday, and
for one hour prior to receiving Holy Communion. Yet even when not fasting, we
should remember St Josemaría Escrivá’s advice in The Way: “The body must be
given a little less than it needs; otherwise, it will turn traitor.” How much
more progress we could make in the spiritual life if only we accompanied our
prayers with sacrifice! “The day you leave the table without having made some
small mortification,” the saint warns us, “you will have eaten like a pagan.”
(Talk about food for thought!)

“Learn of me,” Jesus tells us, “because I am meek and humble of heart” (Mt
11:29). Imagine our divine Savior, forty days and forty nights in the desert,
faint with hunger from fasting. When tempted by Satan to turn stones into
bread, He rejoins, “Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that
proceeds from the mouth of God” (Mt 4:3-4). Then pray: From the sin of gluttony
deliver me, O Lord.

Sloth

The last of the seven deadly sins is sloth, which St Thomas Aquinas defines as
disgust for virtue, a languor of the soul which deprives it of the power to do
good. “Pride may be the root of all evil,” observes R. R. Reno, “but in our
day, the trunk, branches, and leaves of evil are characterized by a belief that
moral responsibility, spiritual effort, and religious discipline are empty
burdens, ineffective and archaic demands that cannot lead us forward,
inaccessible ideals that, even if we believe in them, are beyond our capacity.”
This is sloth.

Medieval writers often speak of sloth as a waning of confidence in the
importance and power of prayer. St Bernard of Clairvaux speaks of a sterility
and dryness of his soul that makes the sweet honey of psalm-chanting seem
tasteless. Dante, on the fourth ledge of Purgatory, describes the slothful as
suffering from a “slow love” that cannot uplift, leaving the soul stagnant
under the heavy burden of sin. The ancient monastic spiritual writers,
recalling Psalm 91:6, nicknamed sloth the “noonday devil” who tempts monks to
sadness and despair. In the heat of midday, as the monk tires and begins to
wonder whether his commitment to prayer and solitude was a mistake, the demon
whispers, “Did God really intend for human beings to reach for the heavens?
Does God really care whether you pray or not?”

To us moderns, the whispering voice says, “God is everywhere. Couldn’t you just
as well worship on the golf course as in a church?” Or, “God accepts you just
as you are. Why change?” In our sloth, we avoid any spiritual discipline,
Christian or otherwise. Missing Mass on Sundays and holy days of obligation,
laxity in prayer, disregard for the Church’s laws of fast and abstinence, a
tendency to follow the lines of least resistance — these are all manifestations
of sloth.

An indolent soul is barren in good works (Prov 24:30-34) and easily falls prey
to the devil, “for idleness teaches much evil” (Sir 33:27). As motionless water
soon becomes stagnant, so the Christian who lives idly will soon become
corrupt. Remember Our Lord’s emphatic warning about the slothful servant and
foolish virgins (Mt 25:1-30), and His promise to spew the lukewarm out of His
mouth (Rev 3:16).

Hungering for righteousness, or likeness to God, is the beatitude that remedies
sloth (Mt 5:6). God alone satisfies the deepest desires of the human heart.
Sensuality, technology, money and power are just a few of the false gods that
leave us ultimately empty. Seek the true God and you will find Him (Mt 7:7-8),
and in finding Him you will have the joy that overcomes sloth.

“Learn of me,” Jesus tells us, “because I am meek and humble of heart” (Mt
11:29). Imagine our divine Savior on His way to Calvary. Three times He falls
under the weight of the heavy load; yet instead of giving up, He gets up with
renewed resolve to fulfill His mission. Then pray: From the sin of sloth
deliver me, O Lord.

Originally published in The Anchor as a series of Lenten reflections by Father
Kocik in 2005. 

 

Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a reply

Altar Servers’ summer day trip

Posted on August 5, 2015 by adminAugust 9, 2015

ALTAR SERVERS’ SUMMER DAY TRIP

. (2)All altar servers with their parents are invited to the PawSox  game on
Monday. We leave from St Anne’s at 5 and return around 10pm.
Date/Time:  Monday, August 17 2015 at 7:05 PM
Home Team:  Pawtucket Red Sox
Opponent:  Syracuse Chiefs
Venue:  McCoy Stadium

@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

On Saturday, August 22, Saint Anne’s Fundraising group offers the Car Wash from
9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Auto Zone is located at 355 Rhode Island Avenue. Our
Confirmation students will be washing the cars. Students participating in the
fundraising project please sign up in the volunteer spot. Tickets are available
at the parish office or after Masses: $5.00 for cars and $7.00 for SUVs, vans
and large vehicles. Thank you all for participation.Car Wash

 

Posted in Liturgical Events, Uncategorized

Saint Anne’s online giving

Posted on July 27, 2015 by adminJuly 27, 2015

 

Online Giving is convenient giving

Online Giving provides a convenient way for Saint Anne’s parishioners to make
financial contributions. It also relieves church staff from managing secure
account information. Online Giving is a web-based offertory solution that
allows parishioners to make donations electronically from any location at any
time. Administration is simple and easy.

.• Anytime, anywhere access
• Regular contributions, automatically withdrawn on the date specified
• One time gifts for special occasions or visitors who are not registered
• Special intention gifts
• Pledges as part of a campaign or as committed regular contributions
• Event payments for dinners, auctions, field trips and more
• Parishioners may continue contributions while traveling or unable to attend
Mass
• College students, extended family, or vacationers may contribute from any
location
• Diocesan appeal contributions
• Complement to offering envelope programs
• Parishioners may start, stop and change contributions at any time
• Parish staff may select credit card and/or ACH (direct deposit) options for
the system
• Parishioners may use multiple accounts for giving, including both credit
cards and bank accounts
• Select gift frequencies for each contribution fund: Includes monthly, every
two months, quarterly, twice annually and annually
• Online Giving contains a full complement of reports for both parishioners and
parish staff
• The QuickGive feature provides visitors a way to make a contribution without
registering in the system
• Mobile optimization allows parishioners to give via any computer, tablet or
smartphone.
• The system automatically notifies givers that gifts will be processed and
confirmation that they have been processed
• The system automatically notifies givers that credit cards are about to
expire. Click on the link and support your Church Saint Anne’s online giving

Posted in Uncategorized

Post navigation

← Older posts
Search for: Search
twitter Online giving

Mass Schedule

Sunday (shrine)
4:00 pm Sat.
10:00 am Sun.
6:30 pm Sun.

Weekday (shrine)
11:30 am Mon - Fri.

Holy Days of Obligation
As announced in the bulletin and on the website
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
All Sundays are obligatory for the faithful to participate in the Mass
including Easter

Sat., Aug. 15, Assumption of the B V M No
Sun, Nov. 1, All Saints' Day Yes
Tu., Dec. 8, Feast Immaculate Conception Yes, 11:30 Mass
Fri., Dec 25, 2015 Christmas Yes, vigil Mass at 4 pm, Christmas day Mass 10 am
Thu. New Year's Eve Dec 31, 11:30 am and 4:00 pm
Fri., New Year's Day Jan. 1, 2016 at 11:30 am which is a solemnity of Mary
Mother of God, holy day of obligation.
Easter Sunday of the Resurrection of the Lord
<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< Confessions (shrine)
11:00-11:25 am Mon–Fri
3:00-3:45 pm Sat.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Eucharistic adoration at Saint Anne's Shrine is a Eucharistic devotion before
the Most Blessed Sacrament exposed, during some Sundays between 10 am and 6:30
pm Masses.
****
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Upcoming Events:

December- Christmas Stars

Requested Items for Church

- used or new movable walls partitions for our Shrine

St. Anne

Recent Posts

  • The upper Church restoration meeting on Dec 29, 2015
  • First Confessions
  • Christmas
  • Feast of the Immaculate Conception
  • All Souls’ Day
  • All Saints’ Day – The Holy Day of Obligation this year
  • The annual candlelight procession and Saint Mary’s Cathedral Mass
  • The Seven Deadly Sins — and their Remedies
  • Altar Servers’ summer day trip
  • Saint Anne’s online giving
  • Feast of Saints Anne & Joachim
  • 2015 Catholic Charities, Diocese of Fall River
  • Why do Catholics have more books in their Bible?
  • Online Giving
  • To: Parents of Students in the Religious Education Program
  • The Ascension of Our Lord
  • Saint Anne’s First Holy Communion
  • Holy Week and Paschal Triduum schedule
  • Saint Joseph’s Day

Recent Comments

  • admin on The Seven Deadly Sins — and their Remedies
  • admin on Bishop da Cunha’s 2015 Lenten Message
  • admin on Friends of St. Anne’s Shrine
  • Kroos on The Legacy of Maximilian Kolbe by Fr. Chris Stanibuła
  • B. P. Cher on Saint Anne Church, Fall River
  • Zakline on The Legacy of Maximilian Kolbe by Fr. Chris Stanibuła

Archives

Archives [Select Month  ]

Categories

  • Faith Enrichment
  • Liturgical Events
  • Religious Education
  • Uncategorized

  • The Holy See
  • Diocese of Fall River
  • The Anchor (diocesan newspaper)
  • Diocesan Health Facilities
  • Diocesan Vocations Office
  • U.S. Bishops' Conference
  • Adoremus
  • Ave Maria Radio
  • Catholic Answers
  • CatholiCity
  • Catholics Come Home
  • The Catholic Gentleman
  •  Catholic Charities, Fall River
  • Boston College
  • Bishop Connolly High School
  • Espirito Santo School
  • Saint Stanislaus School
  • Holy Name School
  • Holy Trinity School
  • Saint Michael School
  • Catholic Volunteer Network
  • Catholic War Veterans
  • Catholic World Mission
  • The Catholic World Report
  • The Chant Café
  • Citizens Club of Kosciuszko
  • Couple to Couple League
  • Courage Apostolate
  • Credo Bible Study
  • Eternal Word Television Network
  • First Things
  • Giga-Catholic Information
  • iPadre Catholic Podcasting
  • The Liturgy of the Hours
  • The Liturgy of the Hours (chanted)
  • The Liturgy of the Hours (hymns)
  • Men of St Joseph
  • New Catholic Generation
  • Liturgical
  • Project Rachel (post-abortion)
  • Radio CorMariæ
  • Regina Magazine
  • RECLAiM Sexual Health
  • Relevant Radio
  • Retrouvaille (marriage help)
  • Saint Peter's List
  • What Catholics Should Believe
  • A Woman's Concern (pregnancy counseling)
  • Fr. Z's Blog
  • World Youth Day 2016
  • Today's Readings

(C) 2016 - Saint Anne's Parish Proudly powered by WordPress  Weaver II by WP
Weaver
↑
