 [Truth_for_the_End_of_Time_Banner2] English   Português   Español   Српски  
  Русский   中文   한국어   Français   עברית  മലയാളം  አማርኛ   Română  Deutsch 
                                   Italiano
●Podcast         Did you know that less than 1% of those who have downloaded     Visit our other site
Mobile          the audio books from this site have contributed financially?             at:
Edition!!        If you have been blessed, please help this ministry to grow
                  so we can provide even more books free of charge in more      adventpioneerbooks.com
Home             languages to those who cannot purchase them.  Thank you in
Latest Updates                            advance!                               Search the complete
More Books                                                                          collection of
Zip Files                            [btn_donateCC_L] *                         published writings of
Text Files                                                                         Ellen G. White.
Donations        Welcome to www.truthfortheendtime.com.  This site is devoted
                to the ministry of Ellen G. White, who wrote many books to      ┌────────────────────┐
Audio Book      prepare her readers for the end of this world's history.  You   │Tired of waiting for│
Store           will find books in audio as well as in print or you can         │ downloads? Get 61  │
                purchase these books in hard copy. That this website may be a   │complete unabridged │
 Volunteer to   means of preparing you for this momentous time in earth's       │  audio books from  │
Help us Record! history is my wish.                                             │ this site and from │
                                                                                │ our other site on  │
 Free Shipping                                                 Timothy Turner   │ mp3 CD for one low │
 on all orders                                                                  │   price of only    │
    in the      To listen, click on the corresponding chapter. To save the      │  $165.00 U.S. !!   │
    U. S.!!     chapter to your computer, you may click with the right mouse    │ (FREE Shipping!!!) │
                button on the chapter title and choose "Save Target As" from    │     click here     │
Now Visit us on the pop-up menu. When the window pops up, just click "Save"     └────────────────────┘
   Face book    and the mp3 file will download to your computer.
                                                                                           
View or Sign
Guestbook       ┌────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┐
                │       [Copy]       │            Steps to Christ             │
About Us        │  Click the Book's  │       Narrated by B. Brian Dunne       │
About E. G.     │ Cover to Read the  │         High Quality (128kbs)          │
White           │   Print Version    │                                        │
Contact Us      │                    │Chapter 1: God's Love for Man           │
Copyright Info  │ High Quality Audio │Chapter 2: The Sinner's Need of Christ  │
                │Version (204 MB) in │Chapter 3: Repentance                   │
Help            │     a Zip File     │Chapter 4: Confession                   │
Links           │                    │Chapter 5: Consecration                 │
                │  [Truthfortheend]  │Chapter 6: Faith and Acceptance         │
      [q]*      │ Use this Banner on │Chapter 7: The Test of Discipleship     │
                │Your Website! Click │Chapter 8: Growing up Into Christ       │
New, Library of │   here for more    │Chapter 9: The Work and the Life        │
53 E. G. White  │      banners.      │Chapter 10: A Knowledge of God          │
   Books for    │                    │Chapter 11: The Privilege of Prayer     │
    Kindle      │                    │Chapter 12: What to Do With Doubt       │
                │                    │Chapter 13: Rejoicing in the Lord       │
 e-Sword Home   └────────────────────┴────────────────────────────────────────┘
Best Free Bible
Study Software  All the streaming mp3 e-Books featured on
    Online      www.truthfortheendtime.com are in the Spirit of Prophecy series
                by Ellen G. White. The Spirit of Prophecy series contains not
Advent Pioneer  only books on prophecy, but inspiring books about Jesus, as
     Books      well as about how to live a practical Christian life. Many of
P. O. Box 7511  these books are bestsellers!  You will find amazing truth that
McMinnville, TN will keep you engrossed for hours.  You may access and listen
     37111      to the other streaming e-Books on this site through the links
(423) 991-5346  above.  Please download these e-Books freely and let others
                know about www.truthfortheendtime.com so that they too may
                download these inspiring e-Books.  If you do not want to
                download the e-Books, you may click on the title of each
                chapter for the streaming feature.  

                Below is a brief description of some of the Spirit of Prophecy
                series books featured on www.truthfortheendtime.com.

                Steps to Christ
                This inspiring audio book is a practical guide on how to find
                salvation in Jesus Christ.  It shows how this salvation is a
                gift from God that we cannot earn.  Not only does it reveal how
                to obtain this salvation, but how we can keep it.  If you
                follow the steps in this outstanding book, you will truly be
                one of the most happy people in the world and can rejoice in
                His salvation.

                The Sanctified Life
                An audio e-Book showing how Jesus and the characters of the
                Bible give us examples of how we can live holy lives.

                Thoughts from the Mount of Blessing
                An audio e-Book that comments on the Sermon on the Mount found
                in Matthew.  This inspiring book applies this sermon to our
                daily lives.

                Christ’s Object Lessons
                An audio e-Book which takes the parables of Christ and applies
                them to daily life.  This inspiring book is one of my personal
                favorites!

                The Great Controversy
                This most outstanding audio e-Book in the Spirit of Prophecy
                series talks about the ongoing controversy or confrontation
                going on between Christ and Satan and takes us behind the
                scenes of history to show us how this battle has been played
                out.  It also brings to us a picture of the future, including
                the role that America will play in earth’s closing events.

                The Desire of Ages
                This book is the number one book checked out from the library
                of congress on the life of Christ.  Your heart will thrill as
                you behold Jesus, the Lamb of God which takes away the sin of
                the world.  It is a personal favorite of mine.  I have read it
                four times and constantly use its instruction for my life.  You
                will truly be blessed by this book!!!

                Patriarchs and Prophets
                In this audio book, you will hear the vivid account of how a
                mighty angel in heaven led one third of the other angels to
                rebel against God and how they were cast out of heaven.
                 Following this account, you will look on as God creates the
                world in all of its beauty. You will see  how sin first came to
                be upon planet earth. Beginning at Adam and ending with David,
                you will learn how each of the patriarchs and prophets of the
                Bible found hope in the promise of the soon coming Messiah.
                 You will rejoice as you find that the recurring theme of this
                book is Jesus Christ and Him crucified.  I pray that you will
                also find that not only was God a friend to the heroes of the
                old Testament, but that He can be your friend too.

                Acts of the Apostles  
                Have you ever wished that you could be there when the early
                church was formed; that you could walk in the shoes of great
                men of faith such as Peter and Paul?  This book takes you back
                to the times of the apostles of Jesus.  As you read you will
                find God's ideal for His church on this earth and will be
                challenged to experience the same wonder working power that the
                apostles experienced.  Most of all, you will get a clearer
                picture of the Jesus whom these men sacrificed all to preach to
                the ends of the earth!!!

                Prophets and Kings
                This book begins with the end of the reign of David through the
                prophets of the Jewish nation.  You will hear about great men
                of God like Elijah, Elisha, Daniel, Isaiah, Ezekiel and
                Jeremiah.  You will thrill as you see the great mercy and
                forbearance of Jehovah.  You will marvel at God's patience as
                He determines to fulfill His purpose of bringing salvation
                within reach of every man.

                Christ Our Savior
                This book tells the story of Jesus for children.  The language
                is simple and to the point.

                The Ministry of Healing
                This book contains much material that was not able to be
                included in the Desire of Age.  It shows how Jesus ministered
                to others by providing their physical needs.  It then gives
                sound biblical instruction as to how we also can minister to
                others in the same way that Jesus did.  This is one of the most
                practical books I have ever read.

                Copyright Advent Pioneer Books, P. O. Box 7511, McMinnville, TN
                                    37111 --(423) 991-5346
                  Site Metrics and Web Analytics by NextSTAT

                 
