High Desert United Reformed Church

A URCNA congregation in Apple Valley/Victorville, California

  • Home
  • Worship
  • Sermons
  • Education
  • Affiliated Churches
  • Contact & Directions

  • What Is the Gospel?
  • The Big Questions
  • What Your Parents Never Taught You About Christianity
  • For Members
  • Facebook

Recent Announcements

November catechism schedule posted

You can now download the November 2015 Catechism Schedule (PDF).

31 October 2015

What Your Parents Never Taught You About Christianity. A Series of Talks.

Pastor Morrison gave a series of talks in October on some of the most important
but often un-taught aspects of Christianity. Learn more and listen to the talks
online.

2 October 2013

See all announcements
Subscribe to receive new announcements by email or RSS feed.

High Desert URC Congregational Photo

We’re now worshipping at Spring Valley Lake Community Center!
Service times remain the same. Get directions ›

Welcome!

High Desert United Reformed Church is a congregation in the United Reformed
Churches in North America. We subscribe to the Belgic Confession, the
Heidelberg Catechism and the Canons of Dort, which fully agree with the
Scriptures and speak clearly of Christ and Him crucified. We welcome all
visitors and hope you will join us soon!

Sunday Worship

We worship twice on Sundays at Spring Valley Lake Community Center.
Get directions.

  • 10:00 AM — Communion service
  • 12:00 PM — Catechetical service

Nursery care is provided during the first service. Refreshments are provided
between services. Learn more about our worship services.

New to Reformed Christianity?

Learn about what the Gospel is, and read answers to some of the big questions
you might have about the Reformed faith and Christianity.

Sermons

Audio recordings of sermons preached at our church will now be posted at URC
Learning, where you can also find sermons and lectures from other URCNA
ministers.
(C) 2016 High Desert United Reformed Church. All rights reserved.
