Home Church Home Page

  • Mountain View Bible Fello...

  • What Is The Church?

  • Resources !

  • Our Story...

  • What We Believe

  • Need Help Getting Started...

  • Heaven Or Hell...

  • Home/House Church Article...

  • Biblical HOT Topics!

Current News

Website created!...

31-10-2013
This website is still under construction, please visit us later!
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Archive

Mountain View Bible Fellowship


┏━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
┃[snipshot_b]┃
┗━━━━━━━━━━━━┛

YOU'VE HEARD OF HOME SCHOOLING, RIGHT?

Well, is Home Churching so far off? Ask yourself, why has Home Schooling become
so widly used by fundamental, conservative Born-Again believers? Because the
other options weren't an option! If you are finding it so very difficult, as we
have, to locate a God-ordained, Bible believing and preaching church, Home
Churching may be just what you are looking for! As time for the Lord's return
nears, we are finding the organized church lacking Biblical doctrine that
leaves us as Followers of Christ starving for the true Word of God. Looking for
an alternative? Try HOME CHURCHING! Let us try to answer some of your questions
and help you any way we can. We are by no means "experts"... only people who
are seeking to honor & worship the Lord by following Biblically how the Lord
requires us to honor & worship Him. If we can help in any way, or perhaps even
answer any questions you may have, please feel free to email us at any time.
We'll be sure to get back to you personally as soon as we are able. God bless
as you seek His face.

We would like to make something perfectly clear; It is not our desire to pull
people away from Biblically sound churches and convince them to Home Church. If
you have found a church that is doctrinally sound,strong & obediant to the Word
of God... a church that is run according to God's design according to
scripture, take a moment to drop to your knees and praise God for such a
church. Not all of us are as blessed. Our purpose for existing is to be there
for people who don't have that blessing, and need another alternative.  What to
expect?  Well, we begin to gather about 10:30 for a time of "coffee n
conversation".  We being our time of worshipping the Lord together at 11:00
opening with prayer.  We then have a time of singing praise to the Lord and on
the first Sunday of the month we celebrate the Lord's Table together.  After
that, the children are dismissed for Sunday School, and the Word of God is
taught to us by Brother James Knox, pastor of Bible Baptist Church of DeLand,
Florida via CD.  As we open God's Word together, not a week goes by that we're
not blessed by the gems containted in His Word that we'd not "appreciated"
before, or perhaps didn't have a full understandng of.  At that point, we close
in prayer, give thanks for the food the Lord's provided for us, and we then
enjoy a meal together.  After we've been filled spiritually, and then
physically, we enjoy each other's fellowship and company the rest of the
afternoon until people decide they've had enough! lol  We do have a blessed
time together and invite you to join us.

* If by chance you happen to be in or near the Sayre, Pennsylvania area, we'd
love to have you fellowship with us! We are located at:

807 Orcutt Creek Road
Sayre, Pennsylvania
18840


For More Information, Please Contact:

Jerry & Debbie Senese
(570)888-3451
debbie.senese@gmail.com


SERVICE TIME:

Sunday Morning ~ 10:30
(Fellowship Meal follows morning worship and all are welcome!)

Sunday School provided for 7-10 year olds



**Due to inclimate weather or health issues, there may be times that services
unfortunately need to be canceled for that week.  May we suggest you contact us
either by phone or email Saturday to be sure for the next day if you hope to be
able to join us.  We would love to have you!
  


[Sayre]
 


embed(web_media/myjesuse.mid)
| Bookmark

Copyright (c)2007 Home Church Home Page & OurChurch.com
Web Hosting and Design by OurChurch.Com | Administrator

[viewbanner]
[viewbanner]
Guaranteed Top 10 Search Rankings
Chistian Online Advertising

  • [logo2011]
      □ OurChurch.Com Christian Websites
      □ Christian Web Design
      □ Christian Web Hosting Services
      □ Christian Marketing
      □ Christian Advertising
      □ Christian Web Consulting

[INS::INS]

OCC Recommends

  • Top 10 Search Rankings
  • Custom Websites for $59/mo
  • Customize your website
  • Church Website Design
  • Christian Advertising
  • More Visitors To Your Site
  • Increase School Enrollment
  • Increase Sales For Your Business
  • More Visitors To Your Church

[viewbanner]
