                                       
[btd3]
 [            ]   [aldhelm]St. Aldhelm
     Search       (AD 639-709)
                  Abbot of Malmesbury
    Britannia     Bishop of Sherborne
   Departments    Born: AD 639 in Wessex
                  Died: 25th May AD 709 at Doulting, Somerset
     Travel
     History
  British Life    Aldhelm was born in Wessex, in AD 639. He was apparently a
    Shopping      'nephew' of King Ine, probably, in fact, a cousin of some
                  kind. His father's name was Centa, and it has been suggested
   Biographies    that this was a pet name for Ine's sometime predecessor, King
                  Centwin, who died in AD 685. This would make him a brother of
British Monarchs  St. Edburga of Minster-in-Thanet. When but a boy, Aldhelm was
 Prime Ministers  sent to school under Adrian, Abbot of St. Augustine's,
 Great Scotsmen   Canterbury and soon excited the wonder, even of his teachers,
   EBK Royalty    by his progress in the study of Latin and Greek. When somewhat
 British Saints   more advanced in years, however, he returned to his native
Biographies A - Z land of Wessex.

                  After his return to Wessex, Aldhelm joined the community of
Amazon.com logo   scholars which had become established at Malmesbury, in
  Search for:     Wiltshire, under St. Maeldulph; in imitation of whom, he
    [Books]       embraced the monastic life. His stay was not, however, of Iong
Enter keywords:   duration. He made a second visit to Kent and continued to
[              ]  attend the school of St. Adrian, until sickness compelled him
    [Search]      to revisit the country of the West Saxons. He again sought the
Search Amazon     greenwood shades of Malmesbury and, after a lapse of three
for books,        years, he wrote a letter to his old master Adrian, describing
videos, music     the studies in which he was occupied and pointing out the
CDs, toys,        difficulties which he still encountered.
electronics.
Just select       This was in AD 680. From being the companion of the monks in
the category,     their studies, Aldhelm soon became their teacher and his
type in your      reputation for learning spread so rapidly that the small
keyword(s)        society gathered around him at Malmesbury was increased by
and click         scholars from France and Scotland. He is said to have been
search. Or if     able to write and speak Greek, to have been fluent in Latin
you feel like     and able to read the Old Testament in Hebrew. At this period,
bidding on        the monks and scholars appear to have formed only a voluntary
something,        association, held together by similarity of pursuits and the
click Amazon      fame of their teacher. They do not appear to have been
Auctions          subjected to rules. How Iong they continued to live in this
                  manner is uncertain. However, around AD 683, either at their
                  own solicitation or by the will of the West Saxon monarch and
                  the bishop, they were formed into a regular monastery under
                  the rule of St. Benedict. Aldhelm was appointed their abbot.

                  Under Aldhelm, the abbey of Malmesbury continued, long, to be
                  a seat of piety as well as learning and was enriched with many
                  gifts by the West Saxon kings and nobles. Its abbot founded
                  smaller houses in the neighbourhood, at Frome and
                  Bradford-on-Avon. His church at the latter survives almost
                  completely intact. At Malmesbury, Aldhelm found a small, but
                  ancient, church, then in ruins, which he rebuilt, or repaired,
                  and dedicated it to SS. Peter and Paul, the favourite saints
                  of the Anglo-Saxons around that time. His biographers have
                  preserved the verses which Aldhelm composed to celebrate its
                  consecration.

                  Aldhelm was not a voluminous writer. The works, which alone
                  have given celebrity to his name, are his two treatises on
                  Virginity and his Aenigmata. He may, however, be considered
                  the father of Anglo-Latin poetry; though he also composed in
                  Anglo-Saxon. King Alfred the Great placed him in the first
                  rank of the vernacular poets of his country and we learn, from
                  William of Malmesbury, that, even as late as the 12th century,
                  some ballads he had composed continued to be popular. To be a
                  poet, it was then necessary to be a musician also and
                  Aldhelm's biographers assure us that he excelled on all the
                  different instruments then in use: the harp, fiddle and pipes
                  included. Long after he became Abbot of Malmesbury, Aldhelm
                  appears to have devoted much of his leisure time to music and
                  poetry. King Alfred entered into his notebook, an anecdote
                  which is peculiarly characteristic of the age and which
                  probably belongs to the period that preceded the foundation of
                  the Abbey. Aldhelm observed, with pain, that the peasantry,
                  instead of assisting as the monks sung mass, ran about from
                  house to house gossiping and could hardly be persuaded to
                  attend to the exhortations of the preacher. Aldhelm watched
                  the occasion and stationed himself, in the character of a
                  minstrel, on the bridge over which the people had to pass.
                  Soon he had collected a crowd of hearers, by the beauty of his
                  verse, and, when he found that grabbed their attention, he
                  gradually introduced, among the popular ballads he was
                  reciting to them, words of a more serious nature. At length,
                  he succeeded in impressing upon their minds a truer feeling of
                  religious devotion; "Whereas if," as William of Malmesbury
                  observes, "he had proceeded with severity and excommunication,
                  he would have made no impression whatever upon them."

                  Few details of the latter part of Aldhelm's life have been
                  preserved. We know that his reputation continued to be
                  extensive. After he had been made Abbot of Malmesbury, he
                  received an invitation from Pope Sergius I to visit Rome, and
                  he is supposed to have accompanied Caedwalla, King of the West
                  Saxons, who was baptized by that Pope, and died in the Eternal
                  City in AD 689. He did not, however, remain abroad for long.

                  In AD 692, Aldhelm appears, from his letter on the subject
                  quoted by his biographers, to have taken part, to a certain
                  degree, in St. Wilfred's great controversy against the Celtic
                  usages of the Northumbrian Church. Soon after this, he is
                  found employed in the same dispute about the celebration of
                  Easter, with the Britons of Cornwall. A synod was called by
                  King Ine, about AD 700, to attempt a reconciliation between
                  the remains of the ancient British Church in the extreme west
                  with the Anglo-Saxon Church, and Aldhelm was appointed to
                  write a letter on the subject to King Gerren of Dumnonia (by
                  then reduced to Cornwall), which is still preserved. Five
                  years later, upon the death of St. Haedda, the Bishopric of
                  Wessex was divided into two dioceses, of which one, that of
                  Sherborne, was given to St. Aldhelm, who appears to have been
                  allowed to retain, at the same time, the Abbacy of Malmesbury.
                  He soon rebuilt the church at Sherborne in fitting cathedral
                  style, as well as helping to establish the nunnery of St. Mary
                  at Wareham. He built churches at Langton Matravers and the
                  Royal palace at Corfe; and the present Norman chapel on the
                  windswept promontory of St. Aldhelm's Head, no doubt, replaces
                  a Saxon original.

                  Not long afterwards, on the 25th May AD 709, Aldhelm died at
                  Doulting in Somerset. His body was carried to Malmesbury,
                  where it was buried in the presence of Egwin, Bishop of
                  Worcester. Stone crosses were placed as markers every seven
                  miles along the route between the two towns and it was not
                  long before his body was placed in a magnificent shrine and
                  reverred as a saint.

                   

                  Edited from Baring-Gould's "Lives of the Saints" (1877).

                                            [Britannia Biographies             ]


  Britannia.com      Copyright (C)2001 Britannia.com, LLC

