Gap Hill Church of God

  • News
  • Podcast
  • About
  • Ministries
  • Staff
  • Service Times
  • Contact

Select Page
[Gap-Hill-B]
[10358692_9]

Welcome to Gap Hill Church Of God

We at Gap Hill are a strong body of believers longing to share the love of our
Savior with the surrounding community.

We have numerous ministries and programs to reach out to anyone in need, from
adolescence to adulthood.

Thanks for stopping by. We hope you find what you’re looking for.

[gaphillpra]


Service Times

Sunday
Sunday School: 10:00 – 10:50
Morning Worship: 11:00-12:00
Evening Worship: 6:00-7:30

Wednesday
Family Training Hour 7:00 – 8:00



Ministries

From infants to seniors, we have something for every age group for you to be a
part of! Find out more about the ministries of Gap Hill here.



Our Staff

We’re proud to have some of the best ministers & ministry leaders.  Find out
more about Pastor Edwards and leaders of Gap Hill Ministries.



Like Us on Facebook

Keep up with the latest news on our Facebook Page! Click here to find us!

WHAT’S HAPPENING AT GAP HILL

Upcoming Events

Upcoming Events

Stay tuned here for some of the latest news & events happening at Gap Hill

Overflow Youth Update

Overflow Youth Update

5th Quarter – Friday October 30 at the Barn

Overflow Youth – Christmas Party – December 12 – Details to come.

 

 

 

Joyleers

Joyleers

 

Everyone ages 55 and older is invited to join us.  We meet in the Family Life
Center for a great time of food, fun and fellowship monthly.   In November we
will have a regular meeting with a covered dish meal.  It will be
Tuesday, November 10 at 6:00 pm in the Family Life Center.

There will not be a meeting in December.

 

 

Gap City Park & Downtown Kids

Gap City Park & Downtown Kids

The Gap City Park & Downtown Kids is a ministry to the children in 5th grade
and down. Gap City Park Kids Church is age 3-kindergarten and Downtown Kids are
1st-5th grade.

Our Wednesday night schedule is changing for the better.  Each week we will
have different activities.  Don’t miss it!

We are beginning practicing for the Children’s Christmas Program.  All children
already designated to be in the production, please be present on the following
dates:

Saturday, November 7 – 10am to 12 noon.

Saturday, November 21 – 10am to 12 noon.

Saturday, December 5 – 10am to 12 noon.

Saturday, December 12 – 10am to 12 noon with party to follow.

No Results Found

The page you requested could not be found. Try refining your search, or use the
navigation above to locate the post.

GAP HILL MUSIC MINISTRIES

 

 

The music ministry at Gap Hill has several areas to become involved. On the
vocal side there is choir, praise team and special groups. On the instrumental
side there is the Gap band and the rhythm section. And on the technical side
there is sound support and video support. If you would like to become involved
in any of these areas of ministry please contact Brian at the church office at
864-868-9131.

Contact Us

Name [Name                ]

Email Address [Email Address       ]

Message [Message             ]

[Submit] 
Address: 3540 Walhalla Hwy, Six Mile, SC 29682
Phone: (864) 868-9131

 

MEET THE STAFF

 

Tony Edwards

Tony Edwards

Senior Pastor

Read Pastor Edwards Bio

Tony L. Edwards was raised in a pastor’s home in Ruby, SC.   His Dad, Colie L.
Edwards was a Church of God (Holiness) preacher for over 61 years.   Tony has
been married to Carolyn (Gibson) from Chesterfield, SC.  They have two grown
children, Earleen and Jonathan. Earleen and her husband have two children,
Chloe and Noah.   Pastor Edwards graduated from Berkeley High School in Moncks
Corner, SC.  He holds a diploma in Christian Education from the South Carolina
Church of God Bible and Music Institute.  He served on the State Music
Committee for two years and led the Camp Meeting Choir.  He also served on the
State Youth and Christian Education Board for four two-year terms. During this
time, he coordinated the Pee Dee Youth Camps for two years.   He has pastored
Bountyland in Seneca, (twice)  Beaufort, Lake City, Pelzer, and now Gap Hill
Churches of God.  Tony’s ministry make up is that of Pastor, Preacher,
Teacher, Singer, and Musician.  He plays the Pedal Steel Guitar, Lead Guitar,
Bass Guitar, and some on the Banjo, Keyboard, and Drums.  He has recorded 5 
solo CD’s and 2 group record projects.  A couple of his motto’s are:  “I am
Nobody, telling Everybody, about Somebody, who will save Anybody.”  And:  “If I
stepped on your toes, my sight was off…I meant to hit you in the heart!”   His
favorite verse of scripture is Galatians 2:20.

  • Facebook

Sandra Mickler

Sandra Mickler

Church Secretary

Read Sandra's Bio

Sandra has a strong heritage in the Church of God. She and her husband Steve
live in Pickens. They have 2 children.  Their son and his family are active at
Gap Hill. Brad and his wife, Allison have 3 sons.  Their daughter Sheryl has 2
children.  Sandra and Steve enjoy spending time with their family.  The
Mickler’s have been members of Gap Hill since 1992. Sandra began as
Administrative Assistant in June of 2007, and has a vision to support the
ministries at Gap Hill Church of God.

  • Facebook

Brian Hartsell

Music Minister

Pastor Brian is a graduate of Lee University with a Bachelor of Arts in Church
Music. He is a licensed Music Minister in the Church of God and has been
involved in Music Ministry for over 20 years. He is married to Susan and they
have two children.

CLASSES & MINISTRIES

CLICK ON THE LINKS TO FIND OUT MORE ABOUT THE MINISTRIES AT GAP HILL CHURCH OF
GOD

SUNDAY SCHOOL

Sunday School begins at 10:00 a.m. each Sunday. This program is designed to
provide an opportunity for groups to come together to discuss and learn the
Word of God. A variety of classes are available  for all ages from infants to
Senior Adults. The purpose of this ministry is to allow everyone the
opportunity to study the Bible in a group setting suitable to your liking or
age.

Sunday School Classes Available:
Sanctuary Class – This class meets in the main Sanctuary
A-3 Class – This class meets in Classroom setting located inside the
Administrative Entrance – 2nd door on left
A-1 Class – This class meets in the front of the Family LIfe Center
The Vision – This class meets in a Classroom setting located on left just
inside the Administrative Entrance hallway
C2 (College & Career) – This class meets in a Classroom setting; first room on
the right inside the Administrative Entrance hallway
Youth 1 & Youth 2 – These classes meet in Classroom Downstairs in the Youth
Hallway. These classes are focused on 6th-12th graders
Gap City Kids Classes – This is from 5th grade down to nursery age.  These
children meet in classroom settings in the Gap City Kids Wing
Infant and Toddler nurseries are available

FAMILY TRAINING HOUR

The Family Training Hour Ministry provides a God centered enriched environment
focused on ministering to the church families.

FTH Classes on Wednesday Evenings

Adult Class | Sanctuary | 7:00

VISION | Vision Classroom | 7:00

C2 | C2 Classroom | 7:00

Overflow Youth Church  | Gym | 7:00

Gap City Boy’s Clubs | Downstairs | 7:00

Gap City Girl’s Clubs | Gap City Kids Wing | 7:00

Choir | Choir Room | 7:00 -8:30

Music Ministry

Pastor Brian Hartsell – Music Minister

The purpose of the music ministry is to promote the use of vocal and
instrumental music in worship to our Lord by worshipping, leading in worship,
and training others to lead in worship.

Groups meet at different times throughout the week.

See the following schedules:

GAP HILL PRAISE BAND:                        Sunday mornings at 9:15

VOICES OF PRAISE CHOIR:                     Wednesdays from 7:00-8:30 in the
Choir Room and Sundays at 9:00 am and 5:00 pm

PRAISE TEAM:                                            Sundays @ 9:00 am

Childrens Ministry

GAP City - Downtown

Ann and David Barnhardt – Directors  Sunday Mornings at 11:00 Gap City Kids
Wing  Bible-based lessons are taught each week from the Old and New Testaments
in a fun and exciting atmospher using team games, drama, power point, videos,
and other elements.  We put God at the center of all activities as we help the
kids lay the foundation for a lifetime walk with Christ.    Activities include:
Lock-Ins, Gym Nights, Easter Egg Hunt, Nursing Home Visitation, Christmas
Programs, Outings

GAP City - Park

  Audrey & Chad Keith – Directors  Sunday Mornings at 11:00  Gap City Kids
Ministry Wing  The Gap City Park (Jr. Children’s Church) kids ministry works as
a team. Susan and Audrey rotate teaching Sundays while 5 teams rotate as
volunteers. The purpose of the Gap City Park Ministry is to teach Bible lessons
that reveal vital faith principles that the children will be able to apply in
daily living.  In addition to the Bible stories, we have puppet skits, God’s
animals object lessons, memory verses and crafts.  All these activities
combined will help teach the children to live a victorious Christian life.

Nursery

Nursery is available:  Sunday School – 10:00 – 10:50  Sunday Morning Service –
11:00-12:00  Sunday Night – 6:00-7:30  Wednesday Night – 7:00-8:00    The
purpose for the nursery is to provide a safe and playful environment for
children during service times so their parents can focus on their lessons and
activities.  We also want to minister and love the children, to pray with them,
sing and dance, and praise the Lord on their level.
Also Available: Kid’s Drama, Puppet Ministry, Handbells, Girls Clubs (Little
Sweethears, Bluebelles, Joybelles), Boys Clubs, Little Disciples,

Senior Adult Ministry (Joyleers)

If you are searching for good times, good eating, games and fun, one day trips,
and/or visiting various attractions in the area, come join us each month to
obtain all the details.  Periodically we have special guests.  We have devotion
and prayer time together which brings unity in the group.

If you are 55 and over the hill, or younger, but feel older, come be a member
of our group. Membership is free.  We meet the second Tuesday of each month @
6:00 in the Family Life Center.

“We enjoy working with the Senior Adults and the greater the attendance, makes
it more enjoyable.  If you need your spirits lifted, come join us.” -Wallace &
Bonnie Masters (directors since May, 2008)

If you would like more information about the Joyleers, please contact the
church!

Outreach Ministries

World & Home Missions | Men & Women of Action

Janice Grant – Mission Director Randy McCoy – Men & Women of Action Chapter
President   There’s a place for you in carrying out “The Great Commission”! The
Missions Department offers opportunities to serve in both the foreign and
domestic fields.   Short term missions trips to Venezuela and Guatemala have
proven rewarding for team members and a great blessing to the people around the
world.  The scope includes:  construction, children’s ministry, evangelism, and
of course a little bonus fun on the last day of the trip.  If foreign travel is
not your calling, Men & Women of Action offers local opportunities to serve in
construction, disaster relief, and humanitarian assistance.  Gap Hill team has
assisted several times in the Katrina relief as well as many in-state and
community projects. Support is another area of serving.  We support a
Children’s Feeding Center for two lunches per week.  Without this support,
75-100 children attending center would starve. THE GREAT COMMISSION:   Go ye
therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and
of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.  Matthew 28:19

Nursing Home & Prison Ministries

PICKENS COUNTY PRISON MINSITRY Rev. Paul & Pauline Stephens – Leaders The
Stephens’ have ministered at the prison for many years.  Services are conducted
on the 1st Sunday evening of each month. NURSING HOME Yvonne Lomax – Leader The
second Thursday of each month. Leads a group of several people from our
church. 

Bereavement

Betty Masters – Director Maxine Mauldin – Assistant This is a ministry
developed to assist families involved in our church at the time of death of
immediate family members. We have teams of people in the church which prepare
individual dishes to make up the meal that is delivered to the family who has
had a death in their family.

Prayer Ministry

This ministry was started several years ago and has been a blessing to many;
not just in our church but throughout the community. Betty Masters is the
coordinator of this ministry.  When there is a need Betty  receives the call.
 She calls with the request(s) and the ladies pass it on for the chain to
continue and pray.  This means that multiple people are praying within just a
short period of time for the need.

Youth Ministry

The purpose of the Overflow Youth is to lead youth to Christ and disciple them
to live a life of righteousness.

Brian and Susan Hartsell – Youth Pastors

Meeting times are: Sunday Mornings @ 10:00 – Downstairs Youth Department  
Wednesday Evenings @ 7:00 – in the Gym. We just began a new series on War 
Wednesday nights so come out and be a part of this exciting time together.

Shabbach is Feb.20-22 and the cost is 150.00 per person. If you have been
working the Clemson games the cost will be much less. The deadline for sign-up
is Dec. 7. There is only one Clemson game left to help lower your cost so see
Brian about working these games. See you at our next Overflow gathering.

 

 

[Church_Of_]

A LITTLE ABOUT GAP HILL

Gap Hill is approximately 64 years old. We are an active church that is
interested in reaching souls for Christ and serving the community through Him.
We try to create an atmosphere of worship each week, so that families can come
and be touched by the Spirit of God. Come join our services and look forward to
a time of worship with us.

Along with Pastor Tony Edwards, Gap Hill Church of God has many ministries to
offer anyone who wishes to have a growing relationship with Christ. A variety
of ministries are available to meet your families needs, including ministries
for Joyleers (Senior adults), Mens Fellowship, Women’s Ministries, Outreach
Ministries (Families Fighting Addiction/Rest & Recovery), World & Home Missions
Team, Nursing Home Ministries, Various Drama & Puppet Ministries, Prayer
Ministries, Gap Kids Church, and Overflow Youth. Gap Hill is known abroad for
their talent in music ministry which leads us in worship each week.

Gap Hill is a member of the Church of God denomination with headquarters in
Cleveland, Tennesssee.  The state headquarters for the Church of God are
located in Mauldin, South Carolina. For more information, see the links below.

Declaration of Faith Church of God – International Office  Church of God –
South Carolina Office

  • Facebook

Designed by Daniel S. | Login

