    ● [home][News] [Curia] [Addresses] [Carmelite sites] [o.c.d.s.] [emai]

                 The Virgin Mary in our Life
                               
  Marian spirituality of the   A living spiritual tradition    carmine5.jpg
  Order                                                        (4690 byte)
  Saint Teresa of Jesus and    St John of the Cross and
  the Virgin Mary              other Carmelite authors

  INTRODUCTION 

  One of the noted characteristics of Carmel's spirituality is the presence
  of the Virgin Mary in our Life, communion with her, imitation of her
  virtues and cultivating special devotion to her. We are not dealing with a
  footnote to our charism, but rather with one of the more intimate and
  cherished expressions of our tradition. 

  In chapter 3 of the Constitutions we find an important novelty in the
  legislation of the Discalced Carmelites. For the first time, a theme so
  basic to the spirituality of the Order, as is the Marian spirit, is brought
  into relief, briefly synthesised and fills out the global picture of the
  religious consecration and contemplative life of the Discalced Carmelites.
  There is no doubt that, although the consciousness of its Marian spirit has
  always been alive in Carmel, the doctrinal riches of Vatican Council II, in
  what concerns the mystery of Mary in the Mystery of Christ and the Church,
  and the trend of some post-counciliar documents, especially the Exhortation
  Marialis Cultus of Paul VI, has made possible an adequate treatment in the
  legislative texts of one of the basic points of our spirituality. 

  Chapter 3 offers us a brief, yet precious synthesis of our Marian history
  and spirituality, giving guidelines for a religious formation which must
  be, according to the purest tragion of Carmel, "moulded on Mary", imitating
  her. It shows how meditation on God's word forms the meeting place between
  Carmelite spirituality and the imitation of the Virgin who "pondered on all
  these things in her heart"^(1). This vital and uninterrupted experience of
  love and veneration towards Our Lady is focussed on liturgical celebration,
  personal and community devotion and a special dedication to serving and
  honouring the Blessed Virgin which characterizes Carmel. 

  Number 53 of the Constitutions summarises very well the motives and aspects
  of this Marian life. In the course of this commentary we will select key
  phrases and elaborate their content from the point of view of history,
  spirituality and cult: 

  "The Discalced Carmelite Nuns are, by calling, part of the Order of the
  Blessed Virgin Mary of Mount Carmel. They belong to a family consecrated in
  a special way to loving and venerating the Holy Mother of God; and they
  seek to attain evangelical perfection in union with her." 

  In the very title of the Order, with its explicit allusion to the Virgin,
  we find the full meaning of our identity in the Church as an Order bound to
  Mary. "Carmel is entirely Marian"^(2) as the Church recognises. 

  The presence of the Virgin in our communities increases the sense of
  "family" by the constant reference to the Virgin as a maternal presence in
  the midst of her children. Dedication to her love and cult, as a special
  consecration, determines the intensity of Marian devotion, within the
  purest liturgical and spiritual traditions of the Church, renewed in the
  directives of the Second Vatican Council. 

  According to the spirituality of the Order, religious consecration and
  Christian life as lived in Carmel has as it goal the perfection of charity
  and love for God and neighbour. The striving for holiness which
  characterises our life sees in the Virgin Mary not only the highest model,
  but also the most helpful of companions. Our life of consecration to the
  service of Christ and the Church finds in the love of Mary its most
  enlightening example. Moreover, the teaching and experience of our Saints
  show Mary to be the Mother who goes with us on the road of our spiritual
  journey in order to lead us by the hand "to the summit of the Mount of
  perfection which is Christ". 

  The Marian stamp, connatural to our history and spirituality, ought to show
  itself in a life which reflects in our members the living presence of our
  Mother, which gives to our communities a character of spiritual depth, of
  personal and community simplicity, harmony and charity coming from the
  desire to imitate the most characteristic attitudes in the life of Mary,
  described so beautifully for us by Paul VI in Marialis Cultus number 57. 

  Among the characteristic virtues of the Virgin Mary to mould the life of
  the Discalced Carmelite Nun mention is made of prayer and contemplation
  which in Mary seem to sum up the whole Marian tradition of the Teresian
  Carmel. We have only to consider Mary's continual meditating on Scripture,
  remembering the marvels of God in her personal history and that of her
  people, the attentive involvement in the mysteries of her Son. This
  tradition of ours reaches out towards complete identity with the sentiments
  and the work of salvation of Christ and his Spirit. 

  This brings to mind that our contemplative vocation is focussed on the
  Church and has Mary as its exalted model. She was not only totally
  consecrated on earth and now in heaven to her mission as mother of the
  Church, but also her service of prayer in union with Christ in favour of
  the Church was of a hidden and fruitful nature. She is a model of fervent
  intercession for the salvation of everyone and of constant petition for the
  sending of the Holy Spirit on the Church, like a perennial Pentecost. 

  It is suggested, finally, that evangelical self-denial itself should have a
  Marian character. These words recall that the Virgin, as the first disciple
  of the Lord, is the model of evangelical self-denial by exercising those
  attitudes of a disciple of Christ that our Saints of Carmel emphasise in
  their Marian spirituality: humility, obedience to the will of the Father,
  poverty, forgetfulness of self, unselfish service, intense union with the
  sufferings of Christ to benefit his Body which is the Church. 

  It is an evangelical self-denial which in Mary was centred on what is
  essential because she was immaculate and Holy. Without leaving aside the
  essential, in ourselves voluntary mortification and austerity are also
  required, along with denial of everything that could cloud the totally
  Marian meaning of our life which seeks the purity of heart which shines
  from the heart of Mary, Virgin Mother and Spouse. 

  In these doctrinal themes, which easily find echoes in the fruitful
  spiritual tradition of the Order, the Constitutions lay down the general
  outline of the meaning of our Carmelite vocation in its essentials, in the
  Marian note which has remained integral and common to the history of our
  religious family, and has been continually enriched especially in the
  Carmelite lives of those who have been the most outstanding witnesses of
  our vocation. 

  1. MARIAN SPIRITUALITY OF THE ORDER 

  Number 54 of the Constitutions gives us, in the text and the notes, a
  summary of the Marian spirituality of the Order, both in its origins and in
  the experience of St Teresa and St John of the Cross 

  It is a legislative text, compact and sound which sets out the principal
  points of Marian history and spirituality in Carmel. We will point out what
  is most important and valuable in this text. 

  1. Marian devotion at the beginning 

  Three key words sum up the origin of our relationship with the Virgin Mary
  which forms part of our charism: Mount Carmel itself, the Marian name of
  the Order, the explicit mention of the dedication of the Order of Carmel to
  the service of Our Lady. 

  a) a chapel dedicated to the Virgin Mary on Mt Carmel 

  An anonymous pilgrim early in the thirteenth century provides us, in a
  document concerning the roads and pilgrimages of the Holy Land, with the
  first historical witness to the Marian character of the Order in speaking
  of "a very pretty little church of Our Lady which the Latin hermits known
  as the 'brothers of Carmel' have in the Wadi 'ain es-Siah", Another
  redaction of the same manuscript speaks of "a church to Our Lady". 

  Later the Virgin's title would be given to the whole monastery, when the
  first chapel was notably enlarged, as we find in various ancient documents^
  (3). This early data concerning the chapel on Mount Carmel, dedicated to
  the Mother of God is significant and in practice is the fact from which
  sprang the most ancient devotion of the Carmelites to the Virgin. 

  We suppose that this small chapel had an image of the Mother of God in a
  place of importance. Ancient tradition of the order has handed down to us
  antique images of Eastern influence. Some are in the style of the Virgin of
  tenderness or the enthroned Virgin with her Son. All this shows that the
  hermits of Mount Carmel wished to dedicate themselves entirely to a life of
  devotion to Jesus Christ under the loving gaze of the Virgin Mary. She
  presides at the birth of this new ecclesial experience. Hence she is
  recognised as its Patron, according to the words addressed by the General,
  Peter de Millaud, to Edward I, King of England, regarding the Virgin Mary
  "for whose praise and glory this same Order was especially founded"^(4), an
  affirmation which later tradition would confirm. 

  b) The name: Brothers of the Blessed Virgin Mary of Mount Carmel. 

  It is thus that the name of the Order appears in various pontifical
  documents, with an explicit reference to the Virgin Mary, as is witnessed
  by the Bull of Innocent IV, Ex parte dilectorum of January 13, 1252: "On
  the part of our beloved sons, the hermit brothers of the Order of Saint
  Mary of Mount Carmel ..."^(5). In a later document on February 20, 1253
  Urban IV in the Bull Quoniam, ut ait makes reference to the "Prior
  Provincial of the Order of the Blessed Mary of Mount Carmel in the Holy
  Land", and adds that Mount Carmel is the place of origin of this Order
  where a new monastery is to be erected to the honour of God and "the said
  Glorious Virgin, their Patron"^(6). This name, "brothers", which is a sign
  of familiarity and intimacy with the Virgin, was thus recognised by the
  Church and would in the future be a source of spirituality when later
  Carmelite authors would speak of the "patronage of the Virgin" and of her
  attribute of "Sister" of the Carmelites. 

  c) Consecration to the Virgin 

  Carmel professes a total consecration to the Virgin Mary along with its
  total dedication to the service of Jesus Christ as Lord of the Holy Land
  according to the meaning of "allegiance" and "service" contained in the
  original text of the Rule in its historical and geographical context. This
  is recognised in an ancient legislative text of the Chapter of Montpellier,
  celebrated in 1287: "We beg the intercession of the glorious Virgin Mary,
  Mother of Jesus, for whose pleasure and honour our way of religious life
  was founded"^(7). This special consecration united with explicit following
  of Christ was to have a logical consequence in the inclusion in the formula
  of profession of explicit mention of commitment to God and the Blessed
  Virgin Mary. 

  2. A living spiritual tradition 

  After giving the historical data pertaining to the dawn of the Marian
  experience of Carmel, the Constitutions select the most significant
  elements in the Marian spirituality of Saint Teresa and Saint John of the
  Cross. However, we can condense into a few guidelines the doctrinal riches
  of the Marian spirit of the Order as it has been lived from the beginning,
  enriched by the devotion and the spiritual writings of certain outstanding
  Carmelites. 

  a) Titles of love and veneration 

  It seems certain that the ancient tradition of Carmel expressed its bond of
  love with the Virgin through a series of titles relating to the mystery of
  Mary, but with a particular savour drawn from the experience of Carmelite
  life. Thus, at the beginning, the title of Patron of the Order
  predominated, but the gentler expression of Mother began to make its way
  into favour, as is apparent in ancient formulas from Chapters and
  Constitutions, such as: "In honour of our Lord Jesus Christ and of the
  glorious Virgin Mother of our Order of Carmel"; "For the praise of God and
  the blessed Virgin Mary, Mother of God and our Mother", as the
  Constitutions of 1369 put it. The antiphon "Flos Carmeli" refers to her as
  "Gentle Mother" (Mater Mitis) and John of Chimineto speaks of Mary as the
  "fount of mercy and our Mother". These two titles are related to the
  mystery of the Virgin Mother of God in the extension of her maternity to
  all peoples. To these can be added that of Sister, assumed by the
  Carmelites of the fourteenth century in the devotional literature narrating
  the origins of the Order from the Prophet Elijah, and the relationship
  between the Virgin and the hermits of Mount Carmel. 

  From another doctrinal point of view, the Carmelites, in contemplating the
  mystery of the Virgin, have stressed her virginity seeing in her an
  admirable model for the choice of a virginal life in Carmel and its
  relation with contemplation. For the same reasons, Carmelites were always
  found among those who defended the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception of
  the Virgin in the medieval controversies, either at the theological level
  or by introducing the feast into the calendar of the Order to be celebrated
  with special devotion. It is from this also that Carmelite authors derive
  their insistence on filial contemplation of the most pure Virgin and the
  commitment to imitate this spiritual attitude in the Virgin, symbolised in
  the white mantle which forms part of the habit of the Order. 

  b) The Order's Marian privileges. 

  The Marian history and spirituality of the Order, specially during the
  fourteenth to the sixteenth centuries, continued to be enriched
  devotionally, augmenting the early historical tradition. The Virgin Mary
  appears as the Protectress of the Order at difficult moments in its
  evolution and spread in the West. The Catalogue of Carmelite Saints
  recognised the vision which the General of the Order, Simon Stock, had in
  1251, when the Virgin appeared to him and entrusted to him the habit of the
  Order assuring him of the eternal salvation of all those who should wear it
  with devotion. A document, commonly known as the Sabbatine Bull, bearing
  the date of March 3^rd 1322 and attributed to Pope John XXII refers to a
  vision granted to the Pope himself in which the Virgin promised him
  personal protection in return for the help the Pope would give the
  Carmelites. In the Bull there is an allusion to the privilege of the
  liberation from the pains of purgatory for all those who had worthily worn
  the Holy Scapular through the maternal help of the Virgin who would come to
  free those devoted to her on the Saturday following their death. 

  These two facts have polarised popular attention to the Marian devotion
  proposed by the Order and have monopolised, in a certain sense, the
  spiritual vision the Order has of the mystery of Mary, which is much
  richer, more spiritual and based rather on the gospel. 

  Since the fourteenth century the Order has desired to celebrate the
  benefits received for the Virgin by a special feast, the Solemn
  Commemoration of the Virgin Mary of Mount Carmel. This feast remembers the
  protection of Mary while giving expression to the Order's thanksgiving to
  her. The choice of date, as is known, was influenced by the partial
  approval of the Order obtained at the second Council of Lyons on July 17^th
  1274 when there was risk of the Order's extinction. Later, July 16^th was
  chosen as the date traditionally associated with St Simon Stock's vision of
  Mary. Thus the remembrance of the Virgin's protection was concentrated in
  thanksgiving for what is the symbol of her great love for Carmelites: the
  gift of the Holy Scapular and its privileges. 

  c) Marian spirituality of the Order Mary as model and mother 

  A distinctive note of the attitude of Carmelites towards the Virgin Mary is
  the desire to imitate her virtues within their own religious profession.
  The well-known Carmelite theologian, John Baconthorpe (1294-1348) in his
  commentary on the Rule sets out to show the parallel between the life of a
  Carmelite and that of the Virgin Mary. Here we find an exegetical principle
  of great importance, for it centres devotion on imitation. Another great
  lover of Mary, Arnold Bostio (1445 -1449) in his work on the Patronage of
  Mary over the Order, has celebrated the sense of intimacy with the Virgin,
  the special filiation of the Carmelite, the communion of goods with the
  Mother, the sense of "brotherhood" with her. Blessed Baptist of Mantua
  (1447-1516) sings sweetly of Mary in his poetic works. Fr Michael of St
  Augustine (1621-1684) and his spiritual daughter Mary of St Teresa
  (1623-1677) are faithful interpreters of the Carmelite tradition and have
  united a sense of intimacy with the Virgin to the thought of her
  splendour. 

  Although this is not the place for the exposition of the doctrine of all
  these authors, we would like to reveal the existence of a rich spiritual
  and doctrinal tradition in Carmel, which would be worthily continued and
  deepened by representatives of the Teresian Carmel, as we shall see. 

  d) Liturgy and popular devotion. 

  Carmelites have expressed their consecration to the Virgin particularly
  through the liturgy. They have dedicated churches to her and venerated her
  image. The ancient Rituals of the Order, from the thirteenth century
  onwards, show the liturgical fervour of Carmel in the celebration of the
  Marian feasts of the Church and in the acceptance of celebrations which in
  other places and Orders were not received with such fervour as, for
  instance, the feast of the Immaculate Conception. The feast of the Solemn
  Commemoration of the Virgin of Mount Carmel became the principal feast. The
  Order's ancient Jerusalem rite contained many invocations to Mary in the
  canonical hours, with Marian antiphons at the end of each hour and a
  special solemn Salve Regina at Compline. Votive Masses were celebrated in
  honour of the Virgin and the name of Mary was frequently introduced into
  the liturgical texts for Clothing and Profession. It can be said that the
  Carmelite liturgy has left a profound impression of Marian spirit on the
  Order's spiritual tradition and has formed the interior dedication
  professed by the Order to Our Lady the Virgin. Together with the liturgy,
  characteristic devotional practices have flourished, such as the Angelus
  and the Rosary and others proper to the Order, alongside the scapular
  devotion. 

  3. Marian spirituality in the Teresian Carmel 

  The second part of number 54 of the Constitutions presents the logical
  continuation of the Marian experience of Carmel in Saint Teresa and Saint
  John of the Cross in these words, "Saint Teresa of Jesus and Saint John of
  the Cross confirmed and renewed Carmel's devotion to Mary". There follows a
  brief and compact synthesis of the Marian thought of St Teresa and St John
  of the Cross. Within the space allowed by these few pages it will be
  worthwhile to enlarge some more on the vision offered by the Constitutions
  on this point, in order to see just how the Marian theme has been enriched
  in the two saints and how it fits into our present spirituality, beginning
  with the doctrine and experience of Teresa of Jesus, John of the Cross and
  other outstanding exponents of the Teresian Carmel. 

  CONCLUSION 

  Carmel is wholly Mary's. The Constitutions stress this fundamental aspect
  of the Order's spirituality in all its aspects from the most profound ­
  life in communion with Mary and imitating her ­ to the simplest ­ personal
  and community devotion. 

  Fidelity to this aspect of our life is a guarantee of continuity with the
  purest tradition of Carmel. It renews the covenant of love which the Virgin
  has sought to have with our religious family in the Church 

  In Mary, Carmelites scattered throughout the world are united in a
  commitment to serve Christ and his Church. Thus they imitate the Virgin
  Handmaid of the Lord, who silently walked in the footsteps of her Son and
  cooperated with him for the salvation of the world, by prayer and a life
  surrendered to the mystery of salvation. 

  1. Lk 2:19, 51. 
  2. leo xiii 
  3. See Bullarium Carmilitanum I: pp. 4 and 28. 
  4. See Bullarium Carmelitanum I: pp. 606-607. 
  5. Analecta Ordinis Carmelitarum 2 (1911-1913) p. 128. 
  6. Bullarum Carmelitanum I: p. 18. 
  7. See Actas del Capitulo General de Montpellier; Acta Cap. Gen.
  Wessels-Zimmermann, Rome 1912, p.7

                                    [stemm]

                                    ●     ●
         [● English] [● Italiano] [● Español] [● Français ] [● Deutsch]
                             [ [home] ] [ [emai] ]

                   Updated 04 giu 2003  by OCD General House
                   Corso d'Italia, 38 - 00198 Roma - Italia
                  ●  ++39 (06) 854431  FAX ++39 (06) 85350206

                                        

