                     SERMONS OF THE CURE OF ARS - EXCERPTS

                                                                          [hom]

CONTENTS

 1. The dreadful state of the lukewarm soul
 2. Have you religion in your heart ?
 3. Lost works
 4. We are wretched creatures
 5. Routine followers
 6. The world is everything and God is nothing !
 7. Follow one master only
 8. They are for the world
 9. We are extraordinarily blind
10. Not like the others
11. The evil tongues
12. A public plague
13. Your heart is but a mass of pride
14. The tongue of the scandal - monger
15. Oh, everyone says so !
16. St Nicholas and the three girls
17. The sewer of hell
18. A curse will fall
19. Are your affairs going better ?
20. Bad company
21. Anger does not travel alone
22. How death will reveal thieves !
23. If you know how to give, you must know how to pay back
24. Wine is his god
25. All that you say over and above these is of evil
26. The duties of the pregnant woman
27. The duties of the mother
28. The duties of the parents
29. You will answer for their souls
30. To their shame it must be said
31. You no longer control them
32. Getting to know the right people
33. He will help us
34. Ww must expect temptation
35. We are nothing in ourselves
36. Beware if you have no temptations
37. The bad death
38. His prayer is a lie
39. How blind the sinner is
40. Prisoners of sin
41. You can become a good tree
42. Where are you going ?
43. Annual confessions
44. Thoughts about penance
45. Repairing  the wrong done
46. Renounce sin for good and all
47. Merit absolution
48. Prayer commands all
49. You have not the time
50. I come on behalf of God
51. You should come earlier
52. It is neccesary to be converted
53. Have a clean face
54. Model your death upon that of Jesus Christ
55. If man knew his religion
56. Thoughts on the way to Church
57. You are surprised, but not I !
58. When you go back home
59. Clear your minds
60. We are keeping a feast
61. Be religious or be damned
62. Your prayers are only an insult
63. Purity is not known
64. The service of the Blessed Virgin
65. Our inconsistency
66. Love of our neighbour
67. Who has Charity ?
68. Praying , fasting and pleasing ourselves
69. Do you want to be happy ?
70. The gift of everyday
71. The public crosses
72. The crosses which are worn
73. Harvest crosses
74. The armed crosses
75. The beloved crosses  

                                                                       Contents

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

THE DREADFUL STATE OF THE LUKEWARM SOUL

                                                                               

In speaking to you today, my dear brethren, of the dreadful state of the
lukewarm soul, my purpose is not to paint for you a terrifying and despairing
picture of the soul which is living in mortal sin without even having the wish
to escape from this condition. That poor unfortunate creature can but look
forward to the wrath of God in the next life. Alas! These sinners hear me; they
know well of whom I am speaking at this very moment.... We will go no further,
for all that I would wish to say would serve only to harden them more.

In speaking to you, my brethren, of the lukewarm soul, I do not wish, either,
to speak of those who make neither their Easter duty nor their annual
Confession. They know very well that in spite of all their prayers and their
other good works they will be lost. Let us leave them in their blindness, since
they want to remain that way....

Nor do I understand, brethren, by the lukewarm soul, that soul who would like
to be worldly without ceasing to be a child of God. You will see such a one at
one moment prostrate before God, his Saviour and his Master, and the next
moment similarly prostrate before the world, his idol.

Poor blind creature, who gives one hand to God and the other to the world, so
that he can call both to his aid, and promise his heart to each in turn! He
loves God, or rather, he would like to love Him, but he would also like to
please the world. Then, weary of wanting to give his allegiance to both, he
ends by giving it to the world alone. This is an extraordinary life and one
which offers so strange a spectacle that it is hard to persuade oneself that it
could be the life of one and the same person. I am going to show you this so
clearly that perhaps many among you will be hurt by it. But that will matter
little to me, for I am always going to tell you what I ought to tell you, and
then you will do what you wish about it....

I would say further, my brethren, that whoever wants to please both the world
and God leads one of the most unhappy of lives. You shall see how. Here is
someone who gives himself up to the pleasures of the world or develops some
evil habit.

How great is his fear when he comes to fulfil his religious duties; that is,
when he says his prayers, when he goes to Confession, or wants to go to Holy
Communion! He does not want to be seen by those with whom he has been dancing
and passing nights at the cabarets, where he has been giving himself over to
many kinds of licentiousness. Has he come to the stage when he is going to
deceive his confessor by hiding the worst of his actions and thus obtain
permission to go to Holy Communion, or rather, to commit a sacrilege? He would
prefer to go to Holy Communion before or after Mass, that is to say, when there
is no one present. Yet he is quite happy to be seen by the good people who know
nothing about his evil life and among whom he would like to arouse good
opinions about himself. In front of devout people he talks about religion. When
he is with those who have no religion, he will talk only about the pleasures of
the world. He would blush to fulfil his religious practices in front of his
companions or those boys and girls who share his evil ways....

This is so true that one day someone asked me to allow him to go to Holy
Communion in the sacristy so that no one would see him. Is it possible, my
brethren, that one could think upon such horrible behaviour without shuddering?

But we shall proceed further and you will see the embarrassment of these poor
people who want to follow the world without -- outwardly at any rate -- leaving
God. Here is Easter approaching. They must go to Confession. It is not, of
course, that they want to go or that they feel any urge or need to receive the
Sacrament of Penance. They would be only too pleased if Easter came around
about once every thirty years. But their parents still retain the exterior
practice of religion. They will be happy if their children go to the altar, and
they keep urging them, then, to go to Confession. In this, of course, they make
a mistake. If only they would just pray for them and not torment them into
committing sacrileges. So to rid themselves of the importunity of their
parents, to keep up appearances, these people will get together to find out who
is the best confessor to try for absolution for the first or second time

"Look," says one, "my parents keep nagging at me because I haven't been to
Confession. Where shall we go?" "It is of no use going to our parish priest; he
is too scrupulous. He would not allow us to make our Easter duty. We will have
to try to find So-and-So. He let this one and that one go through, and they are
worse than we are. We have done no more harm than they have."

Another will say: "I assure you that if it were not for my parents I would not
make my Easter duty at all. Our catechism says that to make a good Confession
we must give up sin and the occasions of sin, and we are doing neither the one
nor the other. I tell you sincerely that I am really embarrassed every time
Easter comes around. I will be glad when the time comes for me to settle down
and to cease gallivanting. I will make a confession then of my whole life, to
put right the ones I am making now. Without that I would not die happy."

"Well," another will say to him, "when that time comes you ought to go to the
priest who has been hearing your confessions up to the present. He will know
you best." "Indeed no! I will go to the one who would not give me absolution,
because he would not want to see me damned either."

"My word, aren't you good! That means nothing at all. They all have the same
power."

"That is a good thing to remember when we are doing what we ought to do. But
when we are in sin, we think otherwise.

One day I went to see a girl who was pretty careless. She told me that she was
not going back to Confession to the priests who were so easy and who, in making
it seem as if they wanted to save you, pushed you into Hell."

That is how many of these poor blind people behave. I "Father," they will say
to the priest, "I am going to Confession to you because our parish priest is
too exacting. He wants to make us promise things which we cannot hold to. He
would have us all saints, and that is not possible in the world. He would want
us never to go to dances, nor to frequent cabarets or amusements. If someone
has a bad habit, he will not give Absolution until the habit has been given up
completely. If we had to do all that we should never make our Easter duty at
all. My parents, who are very religious, are always after me to make my Easter
duty. I will do all I can. But no one can say that he will never return to
these amusements, since he never knows when he is going to encounter them."

"Ah!" says the confessor, quite deceived by this sincere sounding talk, "I
think your parish priest is perhaps a little exacting. Make your act of
contrition, and I will give you Absolution. Try to be good now."

That is to say: Bow your head; you are going to trample in the adorable Blood
of Jesus Christ; you are going to sell your God like Judas sold Him to His
executioners, and tomorrow you will go to Holy Communion, where you will
proceed to crucify Him. What horror! What abomination! Go on, vile Judas, go to
the holy table, go and give death to your God and your Saviour! Let your
conscience cry out, only try to stifle its remorse as much as you can.... But I
am going too far, my brethren. Let us leave these poor blind creatures in their
gloom.

I think, brethren, that you would like to know what is the state of the
lukewarm soul. Well, this is it. A lukewarm soul is not yet quite dead in the
eyes of God because the faith, the hope, and the charity which are its
spiritual life are not altogether extinct. But it is a faith without zeal, a
hope without resolution, a charity without ardour....

Nothing touches this soul: it hears the word of God, yes, that is true; but
often it just bores it. Its possessor hears it with difficulty, more or less by
habit, like someone who thinks that he knows enough about it and does enough of
what he should.

Any prayers which are a bit long are distasteful to him. This soul is so full
of whatever it has just been doing or what it is going to do next, its boredom
is so great, that this poor unfortunate thing is almost in agony. It is still
alive, but it is not capable of doing anything to gain Heaven....

For the last twenty years this soul has been filled with good intentions
without doing anything at all to correct its habits.

It is like someone who is envious of anyone who is on top of the world but who
would not deign to lift a foot to try to get there himself. It would not,
however, wish to renounce eternal blessings for those of the world. Yet it does
not wish either to leave the world or to go to Heaven, and if it can just
manage to pass its time without crosses or difficulties, it would never ask to
leave this world at all. If you hear someone with such a soul say that life is
long and pretty miserable, that is only when everything is not going in
accordance with his desires. If God, in order to force such a soul to detach
itself from temporal things, sends it any cross or suffering, it is fretful and
grieving and abandons itself to grumbles and complaints and often even to a
kind of despair. It seems as if it does not want to see that God has sent it
these trials for its good, to detach it from this world and to draw it towards
Himself. What has it done to deserve these trials? In this state a person
thinks in his own mind that there are many others more blameworthy than himself
who have not to submit to such trials.

In prosperous times the lukewarm soul does not go so far as to forget God, but
neither does it forget itself. It knows very well how to boast about all the
means it has employed to achieve its prosperity. It is quite convinced that
many others would not have achieved the same success. It loves to repeat that
and to hear it repeated, and every time it hears it, it is with fresh pleasure.
The individual with the lukewarm soul assumes a gracious air when associating
with those who flatter him. But towards those who have not paid him the respect
which he believes he has deserved or who have not been grateful for his
kindnesses, he maintains an air of frigid indifference and seems to indicate to
them that they are ungrateful creatures who do not deserve to receive the good
which he has done them....

If I wanted to paint you an exact picture, my brethren, of the state of a soul
which lives in tepidity, I should tell you that it is like a tortoise or a
snail. It moves only by dragging itself along the ground, and one can see it
getting from place to place with great difficulty. The love of God, which it
feels deep down in itself, is like a tiny spark of fire hidden under a heap of
ashes.

The lukewarm soul comes to the point of being completely indifferent to its own
loss. It has nothing left but a love without tenderness, without action, and
without energy which sustains it with difficulty in all that is essential for
salvation. But for all other means of Grace, it looks upon them as nothing or
almost nothing. Alas, my brethren, this poor soul in its tepidity is like
someone between two bouts of sleep. It would like to act, but its will has
become so softened that it lacks either the force or the courage to accomplish
its wishes.

It is true that a Christian who lives in tepidity still regularly -- in
appearance at least -- fulfils his duties. He will indeed get down on his knees
every morning to say his prayers. He will go to the Sacraments every year at
Easter and even several times during the course of the twelve months. But in
all of this there will be such a distaste, so much slackness and so much
indifference, so little preparation, so little change in his way of life, that
it is easy to see that he is only fulfilling his duties from habit and routine
.... because this is a feast and he is in the habit of carrying them out at
such a time. His Confessions and his Communions are not sacrilegious, if you
like, but they are Confessions and Communions which bear no fruit -- which, far
from making him more perfect and more pleasing to God, only make him more
unworthy. As for his prayers, God alone knows what -- without, of course, any
preparation -- he makes of these.

In the morning it is not God who occupies his thoughts, nor the salvation of
his poor soul; he is quite taken up with thoughts of work. His mind is so
wrapped up in the things of earth that the thought of God has no place in it.
He is thinking about what he is going to be doing during the day, where he will
be sending his children and his various employees, in what way he will expedite
his own work. To say his prayers, he gets down on his knees, undoubtedly, but
he does not know what he wants to ask God, nor what he needs, nor even before
whom he is kneeling. His careless demeanour shows this very clearly. It is a
poor man indeed who, however miserable he is, wants nothing at all and loves
his poverty. It is surely a desperately sick person who scorns doctors and
remedies and clings to his infirmities.

You can see that this lukewarm soul has no difficulty, on the slightest
pretext, in talking during the course of his prayers.

For no reason at all he will abandon them, partly at least, thinking that he
will finish them in another moment. Does he want to offer his day to God, to
say his Grace? He does all that, but often without thinking of the one who is
addressed. He will not even stop working. If the possessor of the lukewarm soul
is a man, he will turn his cap or his hat around in his hands as if to see
whether it is good or bad, as though he had some idea of selling it. If it is a
woman, she will say her prayers while slicing bread into her soup, or putting
wood on the fire, or calling out to her children or maid. If you like, such
distractions during prayer are not exactly deliberate. People would rather not
have them, but because it is necessary to go to so much trouble and expend so
much energy to get rid of them, they let them alone and allow them to come as
they will.

The lukewarm Christian may not perhaps work on Sunday at tasks which seem to be
forbidden to anyone who has even the slightest shred of religion, but doing
some sewing, arranging something in the house, driving sheep to the fields
during the times for Masses, on the pretext that there is not enough food to
give them -- all these things will be done without the slightest scruple, and
such people will prefer to allow their souls and the souls of their employees
to perish rather than endanger their animals. A man will busy himself getting
out his tools and his carts and harrows and so on, for the next day; he will
fill in a hole or fence a gap; he will cut various lengths of cords and ropes;
he will carry out the churns and set them in order. What do you think about all
this, my brethren? Is it not, alas, the simple truth? ....

A lukewarm soul will go to Confession regularly, and even quite frequently. But
what kind of Confessions are they? No preparation, no desire to correct faults,
or, at the least, a desire so feeble and so small that the slightest difficulty
will put a stop to it altogether. The Confessions of such a person are merely
repetitions of old ones, which would be a happy state of affairs indeed if
there were nothing to add to them. Twenty years ago he was accusing himself of
the same things he confesses today, and if he goes to Confession for the next
twenty years, he will say the same things. A lukewarm soul will not, if you
like, commit the big sins. But some slander or back-biting, a lie, a feeling of
hatred, of dislike, of jealousy, a slight touch of deceit or double-dealing --
these count for nothing with it. If it is a woman and you do not pay her all
the respect which she considers her due, she will, under the guise of
pretending that God has been offended, make sure that you realise it; she could
say more than that, of course, since it is she herself who has been offended.
It is true that such a woman would not stop going to the Sacraments, but her
dispositions are worthy of compassion.

On the day when she wants to receive her God, she spends part of the morning
thinking of temporal matters. If it is a man, he will be thinking about his
deals and his sales. If it is a married woman, she will be thinking about her
household and her children. If it is a young girl, her thoughts will be on her
clothes.

If it is a boy, he will be dreaming about passing pleasures and so on. The
lukewarm soul shuts God up in an obscure and ugly kind of prison. Its possessor
does not crucify Him, but God can find little joy or consolation in his heart.
All his dispositions proclaim that his poor soul is struggling for the breath
of life.

After having received Holy Communion, this person will hardly give another
thought to God in all the days to follow. His manner of life tells us that he
did not know the greatness of the happiness which had been his.

A lukewarm Christian thinks very little upon the state of his poor soul and
almost never lets his mind run over the past. If the thought of making any
effort to be better crosses his mind at all, he believes that once he has
confessed his sins, he ought to be perfectly happy and at peace. He assists at
Holy Mass very much as he would at any ordinary activity. He does not think at
all seriously of what he is doing and finds no trouble in chatting about all
sorts of things while on the way there. Possibly he will not give a single
thought to the fact that he is about to participate in the greatest of all the
gifts that God, all-powerful as He is, could give us. He does give some thought
to the needs of his own soul, yes, but a very small and feeble amount of
thought indeed. Frequently he will even present himself before the presence of
God without having any idea of what he is going to ask of Him. He has few
scruples in cutting out, on the least pretext, the Asperges and the prayers
before Mass. During the course of the service, he does not want to go to sleep,
of course, and he is even afraid that someone might see him, but he does not do
himself any violence all the same. He does not want, of course, to have
distractions during prayer or during the Holy Mass, yet when he should put up
some little fight against them, he suffers them very patiently, considering the
fact that he does not like them. Fast days are reduced to practically nothing,
either by advancing the time of the main meal or, under the pretext that Heaven
was never taken by famine, by making the collation so abundant that it amounts
to a full meal. When he performs good or beneficial actions, his intentions are
often very mixed -- sometimes it is to please someone, sometimes it is out of
compassion, and sometimes it is just to please the world. With such people
everything that is not a really serious sin is good enough. They like doing
good, being faithful, but they wish that it did not cost them anything or, at
least, that it cost very little. They would like to visit the sick, indeed, but
it would be more convenient if the sick would come to them. They have something
to give away in alms, they know quite well that a certain person has need of
help, but they wait until she comes to ask them instead of anticipating her,
which would make the kindness so very much more meritorious. We will even say,
my brethren, that the person who leads a lukewarm life does not fail to do
plenty of good works, to frequent the Sacraments, to assist regularly at all
church services, but in all of this one sees only a weak, languishing faith,
hope which the slightest trial will upset, a love of God and of neighbour which
is without warmth or pleasure. Everything that such a person does is not
entirely lost, but it is very nearly so.

See, before God, my brethren, on what side you are. On the side of the sinners,
who have abandoned everything and plunge themselves into sin without remorse?
On the side of the just souls, who seek but God alone? Or are you of the number
of these slack, tepid, and indifferent souls such as we have just been
depicting for you? Down which road are you travelling?

Who can dare assure himself that he is neither a great sinner nor a tepid soul
but that he is one of the elect? Alas, my brethren, how many seem to be good
Christians in the eyes of the world who are really tepid souls in the eyes of
God, Who knows our inmost hearts....

Let us ask God with all our hearts, if we are in this state, to give us the
grace to get out of it, so that we may take the route that all the saints have
taken and arrive at the happiness that they are enjoying. That is what I desire
for you....

 

                                                                       Contents

HAVE YOU RELIGION IN YOUR HEART?

Alas, my dear brethren, what have we become even since our conversion? Instead
of going always forward and increasing in holiness, what laziness and what
indifference we display! God cannot endure this perpetual inconstancy with
which we pass from virtue to vice and from vice to virtue. Tell me, my
children, is not this the very pattern of the way you live? Are your poor lives
anything other than a succession of good deeds and bad deeds? Is it not true
that you go to Confession and the very next day you fall again -- or perhaps
the very same day? .... How can this be, unless the religion you have is
unreal, a religion of habit, a religion of long-standing custom, and not a
religion rooted in the heart? Carry on, my friend; you are only a waverer!
Carry on, my poor man; in everything you do, you are just a hypocrite and
nothing else! God has not the first place in your heart; that is reserved for
the world and the devil. How many people there are, my dear children, who seem
to love God in real earnest for a little while and then abandon Him! What do
you find, then, so hard and so unpleasant in the service of God that it has
repelled you so strangely and caused you to change over to the side of the
world? Yet at the time when God showed you the state of your soul, you actually
wept for it and realised how much you had been mistaken in your lives. If you
have persevered so little, the reason for this misfortune is that the devil
must have been greatly grieved to have lost you because he has done so much to
get you back. He hopes now to keep you altogether. How many apostates there
are, indeed, who have renounced their religion and who are Christians in name
only!

But, you will say to me, how can we know that we have religion in our hearts,
this religion which is consistent?

My dear brethren, this is how: listen well and you will understand if you have
religion as God wants you to have it in order to lead you to Heaven. If a
person has true virtue, nothing whatever can change him; he is like a rock in
the midst of a tempestuous sea. If anyone scorns you, or calumniates you, if
someone mocks at you or calls you a hypocrite or a sanctimonious fraud, none of
this will have the least effect upon your peace of soul. You will love him just
as much as you loved him when he was saying good things about you. You will not
fail to do him a good turn and to help him, even if he speaks badly of your
assistance. You will say your prayers, go to Confession, to Holy Communion, you
will go to Mass, all according to your general custom.

To help you to understand this better, I will give you an example. It is
related that in a certain parish there was a young man who was a model of
virtue. He went to Mass almost every day and to Holy Communion often. It
happened that another was jealous of the esteem in which this young man was
held, and one day, when they were both in the company of a neighbour, who
possessed a lovely gold snuffbox, the jealous one took it from its owner's
pocket and placed it, unobserved, in the pocket of the young man. After he had
done this, without pretending anything, he asked to see the snuffbox. The owner
expected to find it in his pocket and was astonished when he discovered that it
was missing. No one was allowed to leave the room until everyone had been
searched, and the snuffbox was found, of course, on the young man who was a
model of goodness. Naturally, everyone immediately called him a thief and
attacked his religious professions, denouncing him as a hypocrite and a
sanctimonious fraud. He could not defend himself, since the box had been found
in his pocket. He said nothing. He suffered it all as something which had come
from the hand of God. When he was walking along the street, when he was coming
from the church, or from Mass or Holy Communion, everyone who saw him jeered at
him and called him a hypocrite, a fraud, a thief. This went on for quite a long
time, but in spite of it, he continued with all of his religious exercises, his
Confessions, his Communions, and all of his prayers, just as if everyone were
treating him with the utmost respect. After some years, the man who had been
the cause of it all fell ill. To those who were with him he confessed that he
had been the origin of all the evil things which had been said about this young
man, who was a saint, and that through jealousy of him, so that he might
destroy his good name, he himself had put the snuffbox in the young man's
pocket.

There, my brethren, is a religion which is true, which has taken root in the
soul. Tell me, if all of those poor Christians who make profession of religion
were subjected to such trials, would they imitate this young man? Ah, my dear
brethren, what murmurings there would be, what bitternesses, what thoughts of
revenge, of slander, of calumny, even perhaps of going to law.... They would
storm against religion; they would scorn and jeer at it and say nothing but ill
of it; they would not be able to say their prayers any more; they would not be
able to go to Mass; they would not know what more to do or to say to justify
themselves; they would collect every item of harm that this or that person had
done, tell it to others, repeat it to everyone who knew them in order to make
them out as liars and calumniators. What is the reason for this conduct, my
dear brethren? Surely it is that our religion is only one of whim, of
long-standing habit and routine, and, if we were to put it more forcefully,
because we are hypocrites who serve God just as long as everything is going
according to our wishes. Alas, my dear brethren, all of these virtues which we
observe in a great many apparent Christians are but like the flowers of spring,
which one gust of hot wind can wither.

 

                                                                       Contents

LOST WORKS

How is it, my dear brethren, that so few Christians behave with one end only in
view -- to please God? Here is the reason, pure and simple. It is just that the
vast majority of Christians are enveloped in the most shocking ignorance, so
that, humanly speaking, they really do the very best they can.

The result is that if you were to compare their intentions with those of
pagans, you would not find any difference. Ah, dear Lord, how many good works
are lost for Heaven! Others who are a little better informed are interested
only in the esteem of their fellow men, and they try to dissemble as much as
they can: their exterior seems good, while interiorly they are filled with
duplicity and evil. Yes, my dear brethren, we shall see at the Judgment that
the largest section of Christians practiced a religion of whim or caprice only
-- that is to say, the greatest number of them practiced their religion merely
from motives of routine, and very few sought God alone in what they did.

 

                                                                       Contents

WE ARE WRETCHED CREATURES

We cannot dwell upon the conduct of the Jews, my dear people, without being
struck with amazement. These very people had waited for God for four thousand
years, they had prayed much because of the great desire they had to receive
Him, and yet when He came, He could not find a single person to give Him the
poorest lodging. The all-powerful God was obliged to make His dwelling with the
animals. And yet, my dear people, I find in the conduct of the Jews, criminal
as it was, not a subject for explanations, but a theme for the condemnation of
the conduct of the majority of Christians. We can see that the Jews had formed
an idea of their Redeemer which did not conform with the state of austerity in
which He appeared. It seemed as if they could not persuade themselves that this
could indeed be He who was to be their Saviour; St. Paul tells us very clearly
that if the Jews had recognised Him as God, they would never have put Him to
death. There is, then, some small excuse for the Jews. But what excuse can we
make, my dear brethren, for the coldness and the contempt which we show towards
Jesus Christ? Oh, yes, we do indeed truly believe that Jesus Christ came upon
earth, that He provided the most convincing proofs of His divinity. Hence the
reason for our hope. We rejoice, and we have good reason to recognise Jesus
Christ as our God, our Saviour, and our Model. Here is the foundation of our
faith. But, tell me, with all this, what homage do we really pay Him? Do we do
more for Him than if we did not believe all this? Tell me, dear brethren, does
our conduct correspond at all to our beliefs? We are wretched creatures.

We are even more blameworthy than the Jews.

 

                                                                       Contents

ROUTINE FOLLOWERS

Ah, dear lord, what blindness! oh, ugly sin of hypocrisy which leads souls to
hell with actions which, if they had been performed from genuine motives, would
have brought them to Heaven! Unfortunately, such a large body of Christians do
not know themselves and do not even try to know themselves. They follow
routines and habits, and they do not want to see reason. They are blind, and
they move along in their blindness. If a priest wants to tell them about the
state they are in, they do not listen, and if they go through the pretence of
listening, they will do nothing at all about what they are told.

This state, my dear people, is the most unhappy state that anyone can possibly
imagine, and it is perhaps the most dangerous one as well.

 

                                                                       Contents

THE WORLD IS EVERYTHING AND GOD IS NOTHING!

If people would do for god what they do for the world, my dear people, what a
great number of Christians would go to Heaven! But if you, dear children, had
to pass three or four hours praying in a church, as you pass them at a dance or
in a cabaret, how heavily the time would press upon you! If you had to go to a
great many different places in order to hear a sermon, as you go for your
pastimes or to satisfy your avarice and greed, what pretexts there would be,
and how many detours would be taken to avoid going at all. But nothing is too
much trouble when done for the world. What is more, people are not afraid of
losing either God or their souls or Heaven. With what good reason did Jesus
Christ, my dear people, say that the children of this world are more zealous in
serving their master, the world, than the children of light are in serving
theirs, who is God. To our shame, we must admit that people fear neither
expense, nor even going into debt, when it is a matter of satisfying their
pleasures, but if some poor person asks them for help, they have nothing at
all. This is true of so many: they have everything for the world and nothing at
all for God because to them, the world is everything and God is nothing.

 

                                                                       Contents

FOLLOW ONE MASTER ONLY

What a sad life does he lead who wants both to please the world and to serve
God! It is a great mistake to make, my friends. Apart from the fact that you
are going to be unhappy all the time, you can never attain the stage at which
you will be able to please the world and please God. It is as impossible a feat
as trying to put an end to eternity. Take the advice that I am going to give
you now and you will be less unhappy: give yourselves wholly to God or else
wholly to the world. Do not look for and do not serve more than one master, and
once you have chosen the one you are going to follow, do not leave him. You
surely remember what Jesus Christ said to you in the Gospel: you cannot serve
God and Mammon; that is to say, you cannot follow the world and the pleasures
of the world and Jesus Christ with His Cross. Of course you would be quite
willing to follow God just so far and the world just so far! Let me put it even
more clearly: you would like it if your conscience, if your heart, would allow
you to go to the altar in the morning and the dance in the evening; to spend
part of the day in church and the remainder in the cabarets or other places of
amusement; to talk of God at one moment and the next to tell obscene stories or
utter calumnies about your neighbour; to do a good turn for your next-door
neighbour on one occasion and on some other to do him harm; in other words, to
do good and speak well when you are with good people and to do wrong when you
are in bad company.

 

                                                                       Contents

THEY ARE FOR THE WORLD

One section, and perhaps it is the largest section, of people everywhere are
wholly wrapped up in the things of this world. And of this large number there
are those who are content to have suppressed all feeling of religion, all
thought of another life, who have done everything in their power to efface the
terrible thought of the judgment which one day they will have to undergo. They
employ all their wiles, and often their wealth, during the course of their
lives to attract to their way of life as many people as they can. They no
longer believe in anything. They even take a pride in making themselves out to
be more impious and incredulous than they really are in order to convince
others and to make them believe, not in the verities, but in the falsehoods
which they wish to take root in the hearts of those under their influence.

Voltaire, in the course of a dinner given one day for his friends -- that is,
for the impious -- rejoiced that of all those present, there was not one who
believed in religion. And yet he himself did believe, as he was to show at the
hour of his death.

Then he demanded with great earnestness that a priest should be brought to him
that he might make his peace with God.

But it was too late. God, against whom he had fought and spoken with such fury
all his life, dealt with him as He had with Antiochus: He abandoned him to the
fury of the devils. At that dread moment, Voltaire had only despair and the
thought of eternal damnation as his lot. The Holy Ghost tells us: "The fool
hath said in his heart: There is no God." But it is only the corruption of his
heart which could carry man to such an excess; he does not believe it in the
depths of his soul. The words "There is a God" will never entirely disappear.
The greatest sinner will often utter them without even thinking of what he is
saying. But let us leave these blasphemous people aside. Happily, though you
may not be as good Christians as you ought to be, thanks be to God you are not
of that company.

But, you will say to me, who are these people who are partly on God's side and
partly on the side of the world? Well, my dear children, let me describe them.
I will compare them (if I may dare to make use of the term) to dogs who will
run to the first person who calls them. You may follow them from the morning to
the evening, from the beginning of the year to the end. These people look upon
Sunday as merely a day for rest and amusement. They stay in bed longer than on
weekdays, and instead of giving themselves to God with all their hearts, they
do not even think of Him. Some of them will be thinking of their amusements,
others of people they expect to meet, still others of the sales they are about
to make or the money they will be spending or receiving. With great difficulty
they will manage the Sign of the Cross in some fashion or another. Because they
will be going to church later, they will omit their prayers altogether, saying:
"Oh, I'll have plenty of time to say them before Mass." They always have
something to do before setting out for Mass, and although they have been
planning to say their prayers before setting out, they are barely in time for
the beginning of the Mass itself. If they meet a friend along the road, it is
no trouble to them to bring him back home and put off the Mass until a later
hour.

But since they still want to appear Christian, they will go to Mass sometime
later, though it will be with infinite boredom and reluctance. The thought in
their minds will be: "Oh, Lord, will this ever be over!" You will see them in
church, especially during the instruction, looking around from one side to the
other, asking the person next to them for the time, and so on.

More of them yawn and stretch and turn the pages of their prayer book as if
they were examining it in order to see whether the printer had made any
mistakes. There are others, and you can see them sleeping as soundly as if they
were in a comfortable bed. The first thought that comes to them when they awake
is not that they have been profaning so holy a place but: "Oh, Lord, this will
never be over.... I'm not coming back any more." And finally there are those to
whom the word of God (which has converted so many sinners) is actually
nauseating.

They are obliged to go out, they say, to get a breath of air or else they would
die. You will see them, distressed and miserable, during the services. But no
sooner is the service over (and often even before the priest has actually left
the altar) than they will be pressing around the door from which the first of
the congregation are streaming out, and you will notice that all the joy which
they had lost during the service has come back again.

They are so tired that often they have not the "strength" to come back to the
evening service. If you were to ask them why they were not coming to this, they
would tell you: "Ah, we would have to be all the day in the church. We have
other things to do."

For such people there is no question of instruction, nor of the Rosary, nor of
evening prayers. They look upon all these things as of no consequence. If you
asked them what had been said during the instruction, they would say: "He did
too much shouting.... He bored us to death.... I can't remember anything else
about it.... If it hadn't been so long, it might have been easier to remember
some of it.... That is just what keeps the world away from religious services
-- they are too long."

It is quite right to say "the world" because these people belong to the camp of
"the worldly," although they do not know it.

But now we shall try to make them understand things a little better (at least
if they want to). But, being deaf and blind (as they are), it is very difficult
to make them understand the words of life or to comprehend their own unhappy
state. To begin with, they never make the Sign of the Cross before a meal or
say Grace afterwards, nor do they recite the Angelus. If, as a result of some
old habit or training, they still observe these practices and you should happen
to see the manner in which they carry them out, you would feel sick: the women
will simultaneously be getting on with their work or calling to their children
or members of the household; the men will be turning a hat or a cap around in
their hands as if searching for holes. They think as much about God as if they
really believed that He did not exist at all and that they were doing all this
for a joke. They have no scruples about buying or selling on the holy day of
Sunday, even though they know, or at least they should know, that dealing on a
reasonably big scale on a Sunday, when there is no necessity for it, is a
mortal sin. Such people regard all such facts as trifles. They will go into a
parish on a holy day to hire labourers, and if you told them they were doing
wrong, they would reply: "We must go when we can find them there." They have no
problem, either, about paying their taxes on a Sunday because during the week
they might have to go a little further and take a few moments longer to
complete the job.

"Ah," you will say to me, "we wouldn't think much of all that." You would not
think much of all that, my dear people, and I am not at all surprised, because
you are worldly. You would like to be followers of God and at the same time to
satisfy the standards of the world. Do you realise, my children, who these
people are? They are the people who have not entirely lost the faith and to
whom there still remains some attachment to the service of God, the people who
do not want to give up all religious practices, for indeed, they themselves
find fault with those who do not go often to the services, but they have not
enough courage to break with the world and to turn to God's side. They do not
wish to be damned, but neither do they wish to inconvenience themselves too
much. They hope that they will be saved without having to do too much violence
to themselves. They have the idea that God, being so good, did not create them
for perdition and that He will pardon them in spite of everything; that the
time will come when they will turn over to God; that they will correct their
faults and abandon all their bad habits. If, in moments of reflection, they
pass their petty lives before their eyes, they will lament for their faults,
and sometimes they will even weep for them....

What a very tragic life such people lead, my children, who want to follow the
ways of the world without ceasing to be the children of God. Let us go on a
little further and you will be able to understand this a little more clearly
and to see for yourselves how stupid indeed such a life can be. At one moment
you will hear the people who lead it praying or making an act of contrition,
and the next moment you will hear them, if something is not going the way they
want it, swearing or maybe even using the holy name of God. This morning you
may have seen them at Mass, singing or listening to the praises of God, and on
the very same day you will hear them giving vent to the most scandalous
utterances. They will dip their hands in holy water and ask God to purify them
from their sins; a little later they will be using those very hands in an
impure way upon themselves or upon others. The same eyes which this morning had
the great happiness of contemplating Jesus Christ in the Blessed Sacrament will
in the course of the day voluntarily rest with pleasure upon the most immodest
objects. Yesterday you saw a certain man doing an act of charity or a service
for a neighbour; today he will be doing his best to cheat that neighbour if he
can profit thereby. A moment ago this mother desired all sorts of blessings for
her children, and now, because they are annoying her, she will shower all sorts
of curses upon them: she wishes she might never see them again, that she was
miles away from them, and ends up by consigning them to the Devil to rid
herself of them! At one moment she sends her children to Mass or Confession; at
another, she will be sending them to the dance or, at least, she will pretend
not to know that they are there or forbid them to go with a laugh which is
tantamount to permission to go. At one time she will be telling her daughter to
be reserved and not to mix with bad companions, and at another she will allow
her to pass whole hours with young men without saying a word. It's no use, my
poor mother, you are on the side of the world! You think yourself to be on
God's side by reason of some exterior show of religion which you make.

You are mistaken; you belong to that number of whom Jesus Christ has said: "Woe
to the world...."

You see these people who think they are following God but who are really living
up to the maxims of the world. They have no scruples about taking from their
neighbour wood or fruit or a thousand and one other things. Whenever they are
flattered for what they do for religion, they derive quite a lot of pleasure
from their actions. They will be quite keen then and will be delighted to give
good advice to others. But let them be subjected to any contempt or calumny and
you will see them become discouraged and distressed because they have been
treated in this way. Yesterday they wanted only to do good to anyone who did
them harm, but today they can hardly tolerate such people, and often they
cannot even endure to see them or to speak to them.

Poor worldlings! How unhappy you are! Go on with your daily round; you have
nothing to hope for but Hell! Some would like to go to the Sacraments at least
once a year, but for that, it is necessary to find an easygoing confessor. They
would like .... if only -- and there is the whole problem. If they find a
confessor who sees that their dispositions are not good and he refuses them
Absolution, you will then find them thundering against him, justifying
themselves for all they are worth for having tried and failed to obtain the
Sacrament. They will speak evil about him. They know very well why they have
been refused and left in their sinful state, but, as they know, too, the
confessor can do nothing to grant them what they want, so they get satisfaction
by saying anything they wish.

Carry on, children of this world, carry on with your daily round; you will see
a day you never wished to see! It would seem then that we must divide our
hearts in two! But no, my friends, that is not the case; all for God or all for
the world.

You would like to frequent the Sacraments? Very well, then, give up the dances
and the cabarets and the unseemly amusements. Today you have sufficient grace
to come here and present yourselves at the tribunal of Penance, to kneel before
the Holy Table, to partake of the Bread of the Angels. In three or four weeks,
maybe less, you will be seen passing your night among drunken men, and what is
more, you will be seen indulging in the most horrible acts of impurity. Carry
on, children of this world; you will soon be in Hell! They will teach you there
what you should have done to get to Heaven, which you have lost entirely
through your own fault....

Woe betide you, children of this world! Carry on; follow your master as you
have done up to the present! Very soon you will see clearly that you have been
mistaken in following his ways. But will that make you any wiser? No, my
children, it will not. If someone cheats us once, we say: "We will not trust
him any more -- and with good reason." The world cheats us continually and yet
we love it." Love not the world, nor the things which are in the world," St.
John warns us. Ah, my dear children, if we gave some thought to what the world
really is, we should pass all our lives in bidding it farewell. When one
reaches the age of fifteen years, one has said farewell to the pastimes of
childhood; one has come to look upon them as trifling and ephemeral, as one
would the actions of children building houses of cards or sand castles. At
thirty, one has begun to put behind one the consuming pleasures of passionate
youth. What gave such intense pleasure in younger days is already beginning to
weary. Let us go further, my dear children, and say that every day we are
bidding farewell to the world.

We are like travellers who enjoy the beauty of the countryside through which
they are passing. No sooner do they see it than it is time for them to leave it
behind. It is exactly the same with the pleasures and the good things to which
we become so attached. Then we arrive at the edge of eternity, which engulfs
all these things in its abyss.

It is then, my dear brethren, that the world will disappear forever from our
eyes and that we shall recognise our folly in having been so attached to it.
And all that has been said to us about sin! .... Then we shall say: It was all
true. Alas, I lived only for the world, I sought nothing but the world in all I
did, and now the pleasures and the joys of the world are not for me any longer!
They are all slipping away from me -- this world which I have loved so well,
these joys, these pleasures which have so fully occupied my heart and my soul!
....

Now I must return to my God! .... How consoling this thought is, my dear
children, for him who has sought only God throughout his life! But what a
despairing thought for him who has lost sight of God and of the salvation of
his soul!

 

                                                                       Contents

WE ARE EXTRAORDINARILY BLIND

We must certainly be extraordinarily blind because when all is said and done,
there is not a single person who could say that he is ready to appear before
Jesus Christ.

Yet in spite of the fact that we are quite aware of this, there is still not
one among us who will take a single step nearer to God.

Dear Lord, how blind the sinner is! How pitiable is his lot! My dear children,
let us not live like fools any longer, for at the moment when we least expect
it, Jesus Christ will knock at our door. How happy then will be the person who
has not been waiting until that very moment to prepare himself for Him.

That is what I wish you to be.

 

                                                                       Contents

NOT LIKE THE OTHERS

I am not like the others! That, my dear brethren, is the usual tone of false
virtue and the attitude of those proud people who, always quite satisfied with
themselves, are at all times ready to censure and to criticise the conduct of
others. That, too, is the attitude of the rich, who look upon the poor as if
they were of a different race or nature from them and who behave towards them
accordingly.

Let us go one better, my dear brethren, and admit that it is the attitude of
most of the world. There are very few people, even in the lowliest conditions,
who do not have a good opinion of themselves. They regard themselves as far
superior to their equals, and their detestable pride urges them to believe that
they are indeed worth a great deal more than most other people. From this I
conclude that pride is the source of all the vices and the cause of all the
evils which have occurred, and which are still to come, in the course of the
centuries. We carry our blindness so far that often we even glorify ourselves
on account of things which really ought to cover us with confusion. Some derive
a great deal of pride because they believe that they have more intelligence
than others; others because they have a few more inches of land or some money,
when in fact they should be in dread of the formidable account which God will
demand of them one day. Oh, my dear brethren, if only some of them felt the
need to say the prayer that St. Augustine addressed to God: "My God, teach me
to know myself for what I am and I shall have no need of anything else to cover
me with confusion and scorn for myself."

We could say that this sin is found everywhere, that it accompanies man in what
he does and says. It is like a kind of seasoning or flavouring which can be
tasted in every portion of a dish. Listen to me for a moment and you can see
this for yourselves. Our Lord gives us an example in the Gospel when He tells
us of the Pharisee who went up into the temple to pray and, standing up where
all could see him, said in a loud voice: "O God, I give thee thanks that I am
not as the rest of men steeped in sin. I spend my life doing good and pleasing
you." Herein consists the very nature of the proud man: instead of thanking God
for condescending to make use of him for a good purpose and for giving him
grace, he looks upon whatever good he does as something which comes from
himself, not from God. Let us go into a few details and you will see that there
are hardly any exceptions to this general sin of pride. The old and the young,
the rich and the poor, all suffer from it. Each and everyone congratulates
himself and flatters himself because of what he is or of what he does -- or
rather because of what he is not and what he does not. Everyone applauds
himself and loves also to be applauded. Everyone rushes to solicit the praises
of the rest of the world, and everyone strives to draw them to himself. In this
way are the lives of the great majority of people passed.

The door by which pride enters with the greatest ease and strength is the door
of wealth. Just as soon as someone improves his possessions and his sources of
wealth, you will observe him change his mode of life. He will act as Jesus
Christ told us the Pharisees liked to act: these people love to be called
master and to have people saluting them. They like the first places. They begin
to appear in better clothes. They leave behind their air of simplicity. If you
salute them, they will, with difficulty, nod to you without raising their hats.
Walking with their heads in the air, they will study to find the finest words
for everything, though quite often they do not even know the meaning of the
words, and they love to repeat them. In order to show that his wealth has been
increased, this man will make your head swim with stories of the legacies he is
going to receive. Others are preoccupied with their labours to become highly
esteemed and praised. If one of them has succeeded in some undertaking, he will
rush to make it known as widely as possible so that his would-be wisdom and
cleverness may be spread far and wide. If another has said something which has
gained approval or interest, he will deafen everyone he knows with repetition
of it, until they are bored to death and make fun of him. If such vain and
boastful people do any travelling at all, you will hear them exaggerating a
hundred times all that they said and did to such an extent that you feel sorry
for the people who have to listen to them. They think that they appear very
brilliant, though people are scoffing at them in secret. No one can stop them
from talking about themselves: one well known braggart convinced himself that
people believed everything he said! ....

Observe a person of some standing scrutinising the work of someone else. He
will find a hundred faults with it and will say: "Ah, what can you expect? He
does not know any better!"

But since the proud person never depreciates the merit of someone else without
increasing his own importance, he will hurry on then to speak of some work
which he has done, which SO-and-So has considered so well executed that he has
talked about it to many others.

Take a young woman who has a shapely figure or who, at any rate, thinks she
has. You see her walking along, picking her steps, full of affectation, with a
pride which seems colossal enough to reach the clouds! If she has plenty of
clothes, she will leave her wardrobe open so that they can be seen. People take
pride in their animals and in their households. They take pride in knowing how
to go to Confession properly, in saying their prayers, in behaving modestly and
decorously in the church. A mother takes pride from her children. You will hear
a landowner whose fields are in better condition than those of his neighbours
criticising these and applauding his own superior knowledge. Or it may be a
young man with a watch, or perhaps only the chain, and a couple of coins in his
pocket, and you will hear him saying, "I did not know that it was so late," so
that people will see him looking at the watch or will know that he has one. You
may observe a man gambling; he may have but two coins to spare, but he will
have all he possesses in his hand, and sometimes even what is not his. Or
indeed, he will even pretend that he has more than he really has. How many
people even borrow, either money or clothes, just to go to places of gambling
or other kinds of pleasure.

No, my dear brethren, there is nothing that is quite as ridiculous or stupid as
to be forever talking about what we have or what we do. Just listen to the
father of a family when his children are of an age to get married; in all the
places and gatherings where he is to be found you will hear him saying: "I have
so many thousand francs ready; my business will give me so many thousands,
etc."

But if later he is asked for a few coppers for the poor, he has nothing.

If a tailor or a dressmaker has made a success of a coat or a frock and someone
seeing the wearer pass says, "That looks very well. I wonder who made it?" they
will make very sure to observe: "Oh, I made that."

Why? So that everyone may know how skilful they are.

But if the garment had not been such a success, they would, of course, take
good care to say nothing, for fear of being humiliated. The housewives in their
own domain ....[sentence incomplete]

And I will add this to what I have just said. This sin is even more to be
feared in people who put on a good show of piety and religion.

 

                                                                       Contents

THE EVIL TONGUES

There are some who, through envy, for that is what it amounts to, belittle and
slander others, especially those in the same business or profession as their
own, in order to draw business to themselves. They will say such evil things as
"their merchandise is worthless" or "they cheat"; that they have nothing at
home and that it would be impossible to give goods away at such a price; that
there have been many complaints about these goods; that they will give no value
or wear or whatever it is, or even that it is short weight, or not the right
length, and so on. A workman will say that another man is not a good worker,
that he is always changing his job, that people are not satisfied with him, or
that he does no work, that he only puts in his time, or perhaps that he does
not know how to work.

"What I was telling you there," they will then add, "it would be better to say
nothing about it. He might lose by it, you know."

"Is that so?" you answer." It would have been better if you yourself had said
nothing. That would have been the thing to do."

A farmer will observe that his neighbour's property is doing better than his
own. This makes him very angry so he will speak evil of him. There are others
who slander their neighbours from motives of vengeance. If you do or say
something to help someone, even through reasons of duty or of charity, they
will then look for opportunities to decry you, to think up things which will
harm you, in order to revenge themselves. If their neighbour is well spoken of,
they will be very annoyed and will tell you: "He is just like everyone else. He
has his own faults. He has done this, he has said that. You didn't know that?
Ah, that is because you have never had anything to do with him."

A great many people slander others because of pride. They think that by
depreciating others they will increase their own worth. They want to make the
most of their own alleged good qualities. Everything they say and do will be
good, and everything that others say and do will be wrong.

But the great bulk of malicious talk is done by people who are simply
irresponsible, who have an itch to chatter about others without feeling any
need to discover whether what they are saying is true or false. They just have
to talk. Yet, although these latter are less guilty than the others -- that is
to say, than those who slander and backbite through hatred or envy or revenge
-- yet they are not free from sin. Whatever the motive that prompts them, they
should not sully the reputation of their neighbour.

It is my belief that the sin of scandalmongering includes all that is most evil
and wicked. Yes, my dear brethren, this sin includes the poison of all the
vices -- the meanness of vanity, the venom of jealousy, the bitterness of
anger, the malice of hatred, and the flightiness and irresponsibility so
unworthy of a Christian.... Is it not, in fact, scandalmongering which sows
almost all discord and disunity, which breaks up friendships and hinders
enemies from reconciling their quarrels, which disturbs the peace of homes,
which turns brother against brother, husband against wife, daughter-in-law
against mother-in-law and son-in-law against father-in-law? How many united
households have been turned upside down by one evil tongue, so that their
members could not bear to see or to speak to one another? And one malicious
tongue, belonging to a neighbour, man or woman, can be the cause of all this
misery....

Yes, my dear brethren, the evil tongue of one scandalmonger poisons all the
virtues and engenders all the vices. It is from that malicious tongue that a
stain is spread so many times through a whole family, a stain which passes from
fathers to children, from one generation to the next, and which perhaps is
never effaced. The malicious tongue will follow the dead into the grave; it
will disturb the remains of these unfortunates by making live again the faults
which were buried with them in that resting place. What a foul crime, my dear
brethren! Would you not be filled with fiery indignation if you were to see
some vindictive wretch rounding upon a corpse and tearing it into a thousand
pieces? Such a sight would make you cry out in horror and compassion. And yet
the crime of continuing to talk of the faults of the dead is much greater. A
great many people habitually speak of someone who has died something after this
fashion: "Ah, he did very well in his time! He was a seasoned drinker.

He was as cute as a fox. He was no better than he should have been."

But perhaps, my friend, you are mistaken, and although everything may have been
exactly as you have said, perhaps he is already in Heaven, perhaps God has
pardoned him. But, in the meantime, where is your charity?

 

                                                                       Contents

A PUBLIC PLAGUE

As you know my dear brethren, we are bound as fellow creatures to have human
sympathy and feelings for one another. Yet one envious person would like, if he
possibly could, to destroy everything good and profitable belonging to his
neighbour. You know, too, that as Christians we must have boundless charity for
our fellow men. But the envious person is far removed indeed from such virtues.
He would be happy to see his fellow man ruin himself. Every mark of God's
generosity towards his neighbour is like a knife thrust that pierces his heart
and causes him to die in secret. Since we are all members of the same Body of
which Jesus Christ is the Head, we should so strive that unity, charity, love,
and zeal can be seen in one and all. To make us all happy, we should rejoice,
as St. Paul tells, in the happiness of our fellow men and mourn with those who
have cares or troubles. But, very far from experiencing such feelings, the
envious are forever uttering scandals and calumnies against their neighbours.
It appears to them that in this way they can do something to assuage and
sweeten their vexation.

But, unfortunately, we have not said all that can be said about envy. This is
the deadly vice which hurls kings and emperors from their thrones. Why do you
think, my dear brethren, that among these kings, these emperors, these men who
occupy the first places in the world of men, some are driven out of their
places of privilege, some are poisoned, others are stabbed? It is simply
because someone wants to rule in their place. It is not the food, nor the
drink, nor the habitations that the authors of such crimes want. Not at all.
They are consumed with envy.

Take another example. Here is a merchant who wants to have all the business for
himself and to leave nothing at all for anyone else. If someone leaves his
store to go elsewhere, he will do his best to say all the evil he can, either
about the rival businessman himself or else about the quality of what he sells.
He will take all possible means to ruin his rival's reputation, saying that the
other's goods are not of the same quality as his own or that the other man
gives short weight. You will notice, too, than an envious man like this has a
diabolical trick to add to all this: "It would not do," he will tell you, "for
you to say this to anyone else; it might do harm and that would upset me very
much. I am only telling you because I would not like to see you being cheated."

A workman may discover that someone else is now going to work in a house where
previously he was always employed.

This angers him greatly, and he will do everything in his power to run down
this "interloper" so that he will not be employed there after all.

Look at the father of a family and see how angry he becomes if his next-door
neighbour prospers more than he or if the neighbour's land produces more. Look
at a mother: she would like it if people spoke well of no children except hers.
If anyone praises the children of some other family to her and does not say
something good of hers, she will reply, "They are not perfect," and she will
become quite upset. How foolish you are, poor mother! The praise given to
others will take nothing from your children.

Just look at the jealousy of a husband in respect of his wife or of a wife in
respect of her husband. Notice how they inquire into everything the other does
and says, how they observe everyone to whom the other speaks, every house into
which the other enters. If one notices the other speaking to someone, there
will be accusations of all sorts of wrongdoing, even though the whole episode
may have been completely innocent.

This is surely a cursed sin which puts a barrier between brothers and sisters,
too. The very moment that a father or a mother gives more to one member of the
family than the others, you will see the birth of this jealous hatred against
the parent or against the favoured brother or sister -- a hatred which may last
for years, and sometimes even for a lifetime. There are children who keep a
watchful eye upon their parents just to insure that they will not give any sort
of gift or privilege to one member of the family. If this should occur in spite
of them, there is nothing bad enough that they will not say.

We can see that this sin makes its first appearance among children. You will
notice the petty jealousies they will feel against one another if they observe
any preferences on the part of the parents. A young man would like to be the
only one considered to have intelligence, or learning, or a good character. A
girl would like to be the only one who is loved, the only one well dressed, the
only one sought after; if others are more popular than she, you will see her
fretting and upsetting herself, even weeping, perhaps, instead of thanking God
for being neglected by creatures so that she may be attached to Him alone. What
a blind passion envy is, my dear brethren! Who could hope to understand it?

Unfortunately, this vice can be noted even among those in whom it should never
be encountered -- that is to say, among those who profess to practice their
religion. They will take note of how many times such a person remains to go to
Confession or of how So-and-So kneels or sits when she is saying her prayers.
They will talk of these things and criticise the people concerned, for they
think that such prayers or good works are done only so that they may be seen,
or in other words, that they are purely an affectation. You may tire yourself
out telling them that their neighbour's actions concern him alone. They are
irritated and offended if the conduct of others is thought to be superior to
their own.

You will see this even among the poor. If some kindly person gives a little bit
extra to one of them, they will make sure to speak ill of him to their
benefactor in the hope of preventing him from benefiting on any further
occasion. Dear Lord, what a detestable vice this is! It attacks all that is
good, spiritual as well as temporal.

We have already said that this vice indicates a mean and petty spirit. That is
so true that no one will admit to feeling envy, or at least no one wants to
believe that he has been attacked by it. People will employ a hundred and one
devices to conceal their envy from others. If someone speaks well of another in
our presence, we keep silence: we are upset and annoyed. If we must say
something, we do so in the coldest and most unenthusiastic fashion. No, my dear
children, there is not a particle of charity in the envious heart. St. Paul has
told us that we must rejoice in the good which befalls our neighbour.

Joy, my dear brethren, is what Christian charity should inspire in us for one
another. But the sentiments of the envious are vastly different.

I do not believe that there is a more ugly and dangerous sin than envy because
it is hidden and is often covered by the attractive mantle of virtue or of
friendship. Let us go further and compare it to a lion which we thought was
muzzled, to a serpent covered by a handful of leaves which will bite us without
our noticing it. Envy is a public plague which spares no one.

We are leading ourselves to Hell without realising it.

But how are we then to cure ourselves of this vice if we do not think we are
guilty of it? I am quite certain that of the thousands of envious souls
honestly examining their consciences, there would not be one ready to believe
himself belonging to that company. It is the least recognised of sins.

Some people are so profoundly ignorant that they do not recognise a quarter of
their ordinary sins. And since the sin of envy is more difficult to know, it is
not surprising that so few confess it and correct it. Because they are not
guilty of the big public sins committed by coarse and brutalised people, they
think that the sins of envy are only little defects in charity, when, in fact,
for the most part, these are serious and deadly sins which they are harbouring
and tending in their hearts, often without fully recognising them.

"But," you may be thinking in your own minds, "if I really recognised them, I
would do my best to correct them."

If you want to be able to recognise them, my dear brethren, you must ask the
Holy Ghost for His light. He alone will give you this grace. No one could, with
impunity, point out these sins to you; you would not wish to agree nor to
accept them; you would always find something which would convince you that you
had made no mistake in thinking and acting in the way you did. Do you know yet
what will help to make you know the state of your soul and to uncover this evil
sin hidden in the secret recesses of your heart? It is humility. Just as pride
will hide it from you, so will humility reveal it to you.

 

                                                                       Contents

YOUR HEART IS BUT A MASS OF PRIDE

You will tell me, perhaps, that you never judge people except by what you see
or after you have actually heard or been the witness of some action: "I saw him
doing this action, so I am sure. I heard what he said with my own ears. After
that, I could not be mistaken."

But I shall reply by telling you to begin by entering into your own heart,
which is but a mass of pride wherein everything is dried up. You will find
yourself infinitely more guilty than the person whom you are so boldly judging,
and you have plenty of room for fear, lest one day you will see him going to
Heaven while you are being dragged down to Hell by the demons." Oh, unfortunate
pride," says St. Augustine to us, "you dare to judge your brother on the
slightest appearance of evil, and how do you know that he has not repented of
his fault and that he is not numbered among God's friends? Take care rather
that he does not take the place which your pride is putting you in great danger
of losing."

Yes, my dear brethren, all these rash judgments and all these interpretations
come only from a person who has a secret pride, who does not know himself, and
who dares to wish to know the interior life of his neighbour, something which
is known to God alone. If only, my dear children, we were able to arrive at the
stage of eradicating this first of the capital sins from our hearts, our
neighbour would never do any wrong according to us. We should never amuse
ourselves by examining his conduct. We should be content to do nothing else
save weep for our own sins and work as hard as we could to correct them.

 

                                                                       Contents

THE TONGUE OF THE SCANDAL-MONGER

Anyone who is unfortunate enough to come under the tongue of the scandalmonger
is like a grain of corn under the grinding stone in a mill: he is torn,
crushed, entirely destroyed. People like these will fasten onto you intentions
that you never had; they will poison all your actions and your movements. If
you have enough piety to wish to fulfil your religious duties, you are only a
hypocrite, an angel in the church and a demon in the house. If you do any good
or charitable works, they will think that this is just through pride and so
that you may gain notice. If you are not worldly and not interested in worldly
affairs, you are said to be odd and singular and to have no spirit. If you look
after your own affairs carefully, you are nothing but a miser. Let me go
further, my dear brethren, and say that the tongue of the scandalmonger is like
the worm which gnaws at the good fruit -- that is, the best actions that people
do -- and tries to turn all to bad account.

The tongue of the scandalmonger is a grub which taints the most beautiful of
the flowers and upon them leaves behind it the disgusting trace of is own
slime.

 

                                                                       Contents

OH, EVERYONE SAYS SO!

Have you ever listened to someone speaking well of a young woman and recounting
her good qualities? Someone else will certainly tell you that if this young
woman has good qualities, she has plenty of bad ones, too.... She is
frequenting the company of So-and-So, who does not have a good reputation.... I
am very full sure they are not seeing each other for any good purpose.... And
what about this other woman, who is always so well dressed and who keeps her
children dressed up, too? .... She would do much better to pay her debts....
And then there is this other one: she always seems good and pleasant to
everyone, but if you knew her as well as I do, you would have a different
opinion.... She only puts on all these smiles as a blind.... Such and such a
man is going to ask her to marry him, but if he asked my advice, I could tell
him a few things he doesn't know....

"Who is that person going past?" asks someone else.

"Ah, well, if you don't know her, it's no great loss. I won't say any more
about her. Keep out of her company -- it's a cause of scandal. Everyone thinks
so. Listen, the very worst people are ones like her who put up to be good and
holy. Anyway, it's always the way that the people who want to pass for virtuous
or pious are the most wicked and spiteful."

"She must have done you some grave harm. Has she?"

"Oh, no! But you know well that they are all the same. I happened to be with
one of my oldest acquaintances one day, and I discovered that he was quite a
heavy drinker and a real blackguard."

"Maybe he did something which angered you?" the other will say.

"Ah, no, he never said anything to me which shouldn't have been said, but
everyone thinks that of him."

"If it weren't you who told me, I would never have believed"

"When he's with people who do not know him, he knows very well how to act the
hypocrite in order to make people believe that he is a very decent fellow. It's
like one day I happened to be with So-and-So, whom you know very well -- he is
another virtuous man. If he doesn't do anyone any harm, he doesn't deserve any
credit for that. It is just that he is not in a position to do so. I assure you
that I would not like to find myself alone with him."

"He did you some harm sometime perhaps?"

"He did not indeed, because I have never had anything to do with him."

"And how do you know, then, that he is so bad?"

"Oh, it's not hard to find that out. Everyone says he is. He is just like that
one who was with you one day -- to hear him talk you would say that he is the
most charitable man in the world and that he would never refuse anything to
anyone who asked him for help. And all the time he would travel ten miles to
gain two pennies. I assure you that nowadays you can't know people at all; you
can't trust anyone. It is just the same with that fellow you were talking to
just now. He looks after his affairs very well; he keeps up a good appearance
always, and all his family look well turned out, too.... It's not so very
difficult, really-he works at night, you know."

"Have you seen him taking anything, then?"

"Oh, no, I have never seen him taking anything. But I was told that one fine
night he went back into his house well loaded with stuff. In any case, he has
none too good a reputation."

And the speaker concludes: "I'm not saying that I have no faults myself, but I
would be eternally sorry to be as worthless as some of these people."

In all of this you can see the notorious Pharisee, who fasts twice a week, who
pays tithes of all he possesses, and who thanks God that he is not as the rest
of men -- extortioners, unjust, adulterers! Here you can see this pride, this
hatred, this jealousy!

 

                                                                       Contents

ST. NICHOLAS AND THE THREE GIRLS

Tell me, now, my brethren, on what foundation are rash judgments and sentences
based? Alas! They are based upon very slight evidence only, and most often upon
what "someone said." But perhaps you are going to tell me that you have seen
and heard this and that. Unfortunately, you could be mistaken in the testimony
of both your sight and hearing, as you are going to see.... Here is an example
which will show you, better than anything else can, how easily we can be
mistaken and how we are nearly always wrong.

What would you have said, my dear brethren, if you had been living during the
time of St. Nicholas and you had seen him coming in the middle of the night,
walking around the house of three young girls, watching carefully and taking
good care that no one saw him. Just look at that bishop, you would have thought
at once, degrading and dishonouring his calling; he is a dreadful hypocrite. He
seems to be a saint when he is in church, and look at him now, in the middle of
the night, at the door of three girls who do not have a very good reputation!
And yet, my dear brethren, this bishop, who would certainly have been condemned
by you, was indeed a very great saint and most dear to God. What he was doing
was the best deed in the world. In order to spare these young persons the shame
of begging, he came in the night and threw money in to them through their
window because he feared that it was poverty which had made them abandon
themselves to sin.

This should teach us never to judge the actions of our neighbour without having
reflected very well beforehand. Even then, of course, we are only entitled to
make such judgments if we are responsible for the behaviour of the people
concerned, that is, if we are parents or employers, and so on. As far as all
others are concerned, we are nearly always wrong. Yes indeed, my brethren, I
have seen people making wrong judgments about the intentions of their neighbour
when I have known perfectly well that these intentions were good. I have tried
in vain to make them understand, but it was no good. Oh! Cursed pride, what
evil you do and how many souls do you lead to Hell! Answer me this, my dear
brethren. Are the judgments which we make about the actions of our neighbour
any better founded than those which would have been made by anyone who might
have seen St. Nicholas walking around that house and trying to find the window
of the room wherein were the three girls?

It is not to us that other people will have to render an account of their
lives, but to God alone. But we wish to set ourselves up as judges of what does
not concern us. The sins of others are for others, that is, for themselves, and
our sins are our own business. God will not ask us to render an account of what
others have done but solely of what we ourselves have done.

Let us watch over ourselves, then, and not torment ourselves so much about
others, thinking over and talking about what they have done or said. All that,
my dear brethren, is just so much labor lost, and it can only arise from a
pride comparable to that of the Pharisee who concerned himself solely with
thinking about and misjudging his neighbour instead of occupying himself with
thoughts of his own sins and weeping for his own poor efforts. Let us leave the
conduct of our neighbour on one side, my dear brethren, and content ourselves
with saying, like the holy King David: Lord, give me the grace to know myself
as I really am, so that I may see what displeases Thee, and how to correct it,
repent, and obtain pardon.

No, my dear brethren, while anyone passes his time in watching the conduct of
other people, he will neither know nor belong to God.

 

                                                                       Contents

THE SEWER OF HELL

There is yet another form of wrongdoing which is all the more deplorable in
that it is more common, and that is licentious talk. There is nothing more
abominable, my dear brethren, nothing more horrible than such talk. Indeed, my
children, what could be more out of keeping with the holiness of our religion
than impure language? It outrages God, it scandalises our neighbour. To put it
even more clearly, loose talk releases all the passions. Very often it requires
only one immodest or unseemly word to start a thousand evil thoughts, a
thousand shameful desires, perhaps even to cause a fall into an infinite number
of other sins and to bring to innocent souls evil of which they had been
happily ignorant.

Can the Christian really afford to occupy his mind with such horrible images, a
Christian who is the temple of the Holy Ghost, a Christian who has been
sanctified by contact with the most adorable Body and precious Blood of Jesus
Christ? Oh, Lord, if we had but some small idea of what we do when we commit
sin! If our Lord has taught us that we may judge the tree by its fruit, you may
judge after listening to the talk of certain people what must be the corruption
of their hearts; and yet such corruption is very commonly encountered.

What sort of conversation do you hear among young people?

Is there anything in their mouths but this kind of loose talk?

Go -- I dare to say it with St. John Chrysostom -- go into these cabarets, into
these haunts of impurity! What does the conversation turn upon, even among
elderly people? Are they not trying to make a name for themselves by seeing who
can be the most outrageous? Their mouths are like some sewer that Hell makes
use of to spew its filth and its impurities over the earth and drag souls down
to its depths. What are these bad Christians -- or rather these envoys from the
nether regions -- doing?

Instead of singing the praises of God, their songs are shameful and hideous;
they are songs which ought to make a Christian die of horror. Oh, great God,
who would not tremble at the thought of what God's judgment of all this will
be! If, as Jesus Christ Himself tells us, not a single idle word will be
unpunished, alas! What will be the punishment for these licentious
conversations, these indecent topics, these shameful and horrible images, which
make the hair stand on end? If you would imagine how blind these poor unhappy
people are, just listen to them talking after this fashion: "I had no bad
intention," they will tell you, "it was just for a laugh; these things are only
trifles, little stupid things, that mean nothing at all."

Is that so, my dear brethren? A sin so horrible in God's eyes that sacrilege
alone surpasses it in evil! This is a trifle to you?

No, it is your hearts which are destroyed and corrupted! No! No! No one can
afford to laugh or joke about something from which we should fly in horror, as
we would from some pursuing beast which wanted to devour us. Besides, my dear
brethren, what a crime it is to like something which God wants us to detest
with all our hearts! You may tell me that you had no bad intentions, but tell
me this, too, miserable and wretched tool of Hell, what about those who are
listening to you -- do they have less bad thoughts and criminal desires after
they have heard you? Will your harmless intention stay the workings of their
imaginations and their hearts? Be honest and tell me that you are, in fact, the
cause of the loss and eternal damnation of their souls! How many souls are
hurled into Hell because of this sin?

The Holy Ghost tells us that this ugly sin of impurity has covered the whole
surface of the earth.

I will say no more now on this subject, my children. I will return to it in an
instruction when I shall do my best to depict it for you again with even more
horror.

 

                                                                       Contents

A CURSE WILL FALL

How is it that you are complaining that your animals are dying? Undoubtedly you
must have forgotten all those sins which have been committed in your outhouses
and stables during the five or six months of winter. You have forgotten that
the Holy Ghost has said that everywhere this sin shall be committed, the curse
of the Lord will fall. How many young people -- alas! -- would still have their
innocence if they had not attended certain winter gatherings [The French word
is veillee, which means a vigil or a night watch, or an evening spent in
company. In rural France, in this latter sense, it means an evening spent
socially in a neighbour's house, especially during the winter months. In the
Cure's day, these could be all-night affairs, with dancing, drinking, and much
more. -- Trans.] young people who now perhaps will never come back to God?
Again, as a result of these affairs, there are those young people who form
associations which, most frequently, end in scandal and the loss of a girl's
reputation. Then there are all the young libertines, who, having sold their own
souls to the Devil, now set out to rob others of theirs. Yes, my children, the
evil which results from these gatherings is incalculable. If you are Christians
and you wish to save your souls and those of your children and others of your
household, you should never hold these gatherings in your homes, or at least
not unless you yourselves, one of the heads of the household, are going to see
to it that God will not be offended by what goes on. Once you have all come in,
you should close the door and refuse to admit anyone else. Begin your
gatherings by reciting one or two decades of the Rosary to invoke the
protection of the Blessed Virgin -- and this you can do if you put your mind to
it. Then banish all lascivious and sinful songs; your bodies are temples of the
Holy Ghost, and these profane your hearts and mouths; banish also all those
stories that are only lies and yarns in any event and are most often directed
against people consecrated to God, which makes them more sinful. And you should
never allow your children into any other of these gatherings. Why do they want
to get away from you, except for the purpose of avoiding supervision? If you
are faithful to the fulfilment of your duties, God will be less offended and
you less blameworthy.

 

                                                                       Contents

ARE YOUR AFFAIRS GOING BETTER?

Another bad habit which is very common in homes and among working people is
impatience, grumbling, and swearing. Now, my children, where do you get with
your impatience and your grumbling? Do your affairs go any better?

Do they cause you any less trouble? Is it not, rather, the other way around?
You have a lot more trouble with them, and, what is even worse, you lose all
the merit which you might have gained for Heaven.

But, you will tell me, that is all very well for those who have nothing to put
up with.... If they were in my shoes they would probably be much worse....

I would agree with all that, my children, if we were not Christians, if we had
nothing to hope for beyond what benefits and pleasures we might taste in this
world. I would agree if -- I repeat -- we were the first people who ever
suffered anything, but since the time of Adam until the present, all the saints
have had something to suffer, and most of them far more than have we. But they
suffered with patience, always subject to the will of God, and soon their
troubles were finished, and their happiness, which has begun, will never come
to an end. Let us contemplate, my dear brethren, this beautiful Heaven, let us
think about the happiness which God has prepared for us there, and we shall
endure all the evils of life in a spirit of penitence, with the hope of an
eternal reward. If only you could have the happiness of being able to say in
the evening that your whole day had been spent for God! I tell you that working
people, if they want to get to Heaven, should endure patiently the rigour of
the seasons and the ill humour of those for whom they work; they should avoid
those grumbles and bad language so commonly heard and fulfil their duties
conscientiously and faithfully. Husbands and wives should live peacefully in
their union of marriage; they should be mutually edifying to each other, pray
for one another, bear patiently with one another's faults, encourage virtue in
one another by good example, and follow the holy and sacred rules of their
state, remembering that they are the children of the saints and that,
consequently, they ought not to behave like pagans, who have not the happiness
of knowing the one true God.

Masters should take the same care of their servants as of their own children,
remembering the warning of St. Paul that if they do not have care for them,
they are worse than the pagans, and that they will be more severely punished on
the day of judgment. Servants are to give you service and to be loyal to you,
and you must treat them not as slaves but as your children and your brethren.

Servants must look upon their masters as taking the place of Jesus Christ on
earth. Their duty is to serve them joyfully, obey them with a good grace,
without grumbling, and look after their well-being as carefully as they would
their own.

Servants should avoid the growth of too-familiar relationships, which are so
dangerous and so fatal to innocence. If you have the misfortune to find
yourself in such a situation, you must leave your employment, no matter what it
may cost you to do so. Here is an example of those very circumstances wherein
you must follow the counsel Jesus Christ gave you when He said that if one's
right eye or right hand should be an occasion of sin, one must deprive oneself
of them because it is better to go into Heaven lacking an eye or a hand than to
be cast into Hell with one's whole body. That is to say, however desirable your
position may be, you must leave it at once; otherwise you will never save your
soul. Put the salvation of your soul first, our Lord Jesus Christ tells us,
because that is the only thing you ought really to have at heart. Alas, my dear
brethren, how rare are those Christians who are ready to suffer rather than to
jeopardise the salvation of their souls!

 

                                                                       Contents

BAD COMPANY

My dear brethren, I call that man bad company who is without religion, who does
not concern himself with either the commandments of God or those of the Church,
who does not recognise Lent or Easter, who seldom comes to church or, if he
does come, then only to scandalise others by his irreligious ways. You ought to
shun his company; otherwise you will not be long in becoming like him without
your even noticing it. He will teach you, with his bad talk as much as by his
bad example, to despise the holiest things and to neglect your own most sacred
duties. He will begin to turn your devotion into ridicule, to make some jokes
about religion and its ministers. He will speak to you at length, in scandalous
terms, about the priests or about Confession to such effect that he will cause
you to lose entirely your taste for the frequent reception of the Sacraments.
He will discuss the instructions of your pastors only in order to turn them
into ridicule, and you can be quite certain that if you keep company with him
for any length of time, you will see that, without even realising it, you will
begin to lose all taste for anything which is profitable towards the salvation
of your soul.

I call bad company, my dear brethren, this young or this old slanderer who has
nothing but bad and foul words in his mouth.

Take good care, my children, for this type of person has a poison of his own!
If you frequent his company, you may be quite certain that you will imbibe it
and that, without a miracle of grace, you will die spiritually. The Devil will
make good use of this wretch to sully your imagination and to corrupt your
heart.

I would call that person bad company, my dear brethren, who is curious or
restless or backbiting, who wants to know all that goes on in other people's
houses, and who is always ready to form judgments about what he does not see at
all. The Holy Ghosts tells us that these people are not only hateful to the
whole world but are also accursed of God. Fly from them, my dear brethren;
otherwise you will become like them. You yourselves will perish with them

 

                                                                       Contents

ANGER DOES NOT TRAVEL ALONE

Ah, my dear lord, what melancholy company is that person who is a slave to
anger! look at a poor wife who has a husband like this. If she has a fear of
God and wants to prevent her husband from offending Him and treating her badly,
she cannot say a word, even when she most desires to do so. She must content
herself with weeping in secret in order not to have quarrels in the home and
risk giving scandal.

"But," an irritable husband will say to me, "why does she contradict me?
Everyone knows that I am hot tempered."

"You are hot tempered, my friend, but do you think that others are not, just as
much as you are? Say rather, then, that you have no religion, and you will
describe what you are. Are not all who have a fear of God obliged to know how
to govern their passions instead of allowing themselves to be governed by them?
"

Alas! If I have said that there are women who are unfortunate because they have
husbands who are irritable and bad tempered, there are husbands who are no less
unfortunate in having wives who do not know how to say a single gracious word,
whom nothing can interest or absorb, except themselves. And what unhappiness
results in that household where neither the one nor the other wants to give
way! There are nothing but disputes, quarrels, and recriminations. Oh, dear
God, is not this a real Hell? Alas, what training for the children of such
homes! What lessons in wisdom and sweetness of temper can they receive? St.
Basil tells us that anger makes a man resemble the Devil because it is only the
Devil who is capable of giving way to these kinds of excesses.... And I would
add that anger never travels alone. k is always accompanied by plenty of other
sins....

You have heard an angry father using bad language, uttering imprecations and
curses. Very well, then. Listen to his children when they arc angry -- the same
vile words, the same imprecations, and all the rest of it. Thus the vices of
the parents -- like their good qualities -- pass to their children, but in more
pronounced fashion. Cannibals kill only strangers, to eat them, but among
Christians there are fathers and mothers who, in order to gratify their
passions, desire the death of those to whom they have given life and who
consign to the Devil those whom Jesus Christ redeemed with His precious Blood.
How many times does one not hear those fathers and mothers who have no religion
saying: "This cursed child.... You make me sick.... I wish you were miles
away.... This so-and-so of a child....

These little brats.... This demon of a child...." And so on.

Oh, dear Lord, that such ugly and evil phrases should fall from the lips of
fathers and mothers who should desire nothing but benedictions from Heaven upon
their poor little children.

If we encounter so many children who are wild and undisciplined, without
religion, bad tempered and stunted in their souls, we need not -- at least in
the great majority of cases-search for the cause beyond the curses and bad
tempers of the parents.

What, then, must we think of the sin of those who curse themselves in moments
of worry and difficulty? This is an appalling crime which is contrary to nature
and to grace, for both nature and grace inspire us with love for ourselves.
Those who curse themselves are like insane people who die by their own hands.
It is even worse than that. Often they lay the blame upon their own souls,
saying: "Let God damn me! I wish the Devil would carry me off! I'd rather be in
Hell than the way I am."

Oh, miserable creature, says St. Augustine, may God not take you at your word,
for if He did, you would go to vomit the poison of your spleen in Hell. Oh,
Lord, if a Christian but so thought of what he said.... How wretched indeed is
the man who is the victim of anger! Will anyone ever be able to understand his
mentality?

How about the sin, then, of a husband and wife, of a brother and sister, who
spew out all sorts of blasphemies upon one another? They would tear out one
another's eyes if they could, or even take away each other's very lives.

"So-and-so wife!" or "So-and-so husband!" they scream, "I wish I had never seen
or known you.... My father was a fool to advise me to marry you! ...."

What horror is this, coming from Christians who should strive only to become
saints! Instead, they do only that which will make them demons and outcasts
from Heaven! How often have we not seen brothers and sisters wishing death to
one another, swearing at one another, because one is richer than the other or
because of some wrong they have received? We see them nursing hatred all their
lives long and even finding great difficulty in forgiving one another in the
face of death.

It is just as great a sin to curse the weather, animals, or work.

Just listen to all the people when the weather is not to their liking, swearing
at it and exclaiming: "So-and-so weather, are you never going to change!"

They do not appreciate what they are saying. It is as if they were to say: "Oh,
so-and-so God, who will not give me the weather that I want!"

Others swear at their animals: "You so-and-so beast, I can't make you go as I
want you to.... May the Devil carry you off! .... I hope a thunderbolt will
fall on you! .... May the fire of Heaven roast you! ....

Alas! Unhappy, bad-tempered people, your curses take effect more often than you
think....

But what should we do then? This is what we should do. We should make use of
all the annoyances that happen to us to remind ourselves that since we are in
revolt against God, it is but just that other creatures should revolt against
us. We should never give others occasion to curse us.... If something
irritating or troublesome happens, instead of loading with curses whatever is
not going the way we want it to, it would be just as easy and a great deal more
beneficial for us to say: "God bless it!"

Imitate the holy man Job, who blessed the name of the Lord in all the troubles
which befell him, and you will receive the same graces as he did.... This is
what I desire for you.

 

                                                                       Contents

HOW DEATH WILL REVEAL THIEVES!

I do not wish to speak to you, my dear brethren, about those who lend at seven,
eight, nine, and ten per cent. Let us leave such people to one side. To make
them feel the enormity and the heinousness of their injustice and their
cruelty, it would be necessary that one of those early usurers, who has been
burning in Hell for the past three or four thousand years, should come back and
give them a description of all the torments he is enduring and of the many
injustices he committed which are the cause of what he suffers. No, these
people are not part of my plan of instruction for you. They know very well that
they are doing evil and that God will never pardon them unless they make
restitution to those whom they have wronged. All that I could say to them would
only serve to make them more guilty. So we will go carefully into something
which involves an even greater number of people.

I tell you that wealth unjustly acquired will never enrich him who possesses
it. On the contrary, it will become a source of trouble and evil for all his
family. Oh, dear God, how blind man is! He is perfectly well aware that he is
in the world for a brief space of time only. At every moment he sees people
younger and stronger than himself passing out of it. It is all to no purpose:
it does not help him to open his eyes. The Holy Ghost has told him plainly,
through the mouth of the holy man Job, that he came into this world deprived of
everything and that he will leave it the same way, that all the possessions he
has cultivated will be taken from him at the moment when he least expects it:
none of this serves to halt his progress. St. Paul affirms plainly that it will
not be long before anyone who becomes rich through unjust means goes well
astray onto the road of sin. And what is more, he will never see the face of
God.

That is so true that, without a miracle of grace, a miser, or if you prefer, a
person who has acquired some wealth by fraud or cunning, will hardly ever be
converted, so greatly does this sin blind anyone who commits it.

Listen to what St. Augustine says to those who have money which belongs to
others. You can, he tells them, go to Confession, you can perform all the
penance you like, you can weep for your sins, but unless you make restitution,
whenever you can, God will never pardon you.... Either give back what is not
yours, or you will have to make up your mind to go to Hell. The Holy Ghost does
not stop at merely forbidding us to take and to covet the wealth of our
neighbour -- He does not wish us even to consider it or dwell upon it, lest we
should want to lay our hands upon it. The prophet Zacharias tells us that the
curse of the Lord will remain on the house of the thief until he is destroyed.
And I am telling you that wealth acquired by fraud or by cunning will not only
be of no profit but it will cause whatever you acquire legitimately to wither
away and your days to be shortened.

My dear brethren, if I wanted to go into the conduct of all those who are
present, I might perhaps find that I had only thieves. Does that amaze you?
Just listen to me for a moment and you will realise that it is true....

The most common thefts are those committed in the course of buying and selling.
Let us examine this more closely so that you may recognise the wrong that you
do and, at the same time, see how you can set about correcting it. When you
bring along your produce to sell it, people ask you if your eggs and your
butter are fresh. You hasten to answer in the affirmative, even though you know
that the opposite is the truth. Why do you say that, unless it is to rob two or
three pennies from some poor person who has had, perhaps, to borrow them to
keep her house going? Another time it will be in the selling of a crop. You
will take the precaution of putting the smallest and the poorest specimens in
the midst of the bunch. You will possibly say: "But if I didn't do that, I
wouldn't sell so much."

To put it another way, if you conducted yourself like a good Christian, you
would not rob as you do. On another occasion, when counting your money, you
will have noticed that you have been given too much, but you have said nothing:
"So much the worse for the person concerned. It's not my fault."

Ah, my dear children, a day will come when you will possibly be told, and with
more reason, "So much the worse for you! "

Someone wants to buy corn, or wine, or animals from you.

He asks you if this corn is from a good year's crop. Without hesitation, you
assure him that it is. You have mixed your wine with another of poorer quality,
yet you sell it as a good and unadulterated wine. If people show signs of not
believing you, you will swear that it is good, and it is not once but twenty
times that you thus give your soul over to the Devil. Ah, my children, there is
no need for you to be overanxious to give yourselves to him -- you have been
his for a long time now! "What about this animal?" someone else will ask you."
Has it any defects? Don't cheat me now. I have only borrowed this money and if
you do I will be in terrible difficulties."

"Oh, indeed no!" you will break in." This is a very good animal. In fact, I am
very sorry to be selling it. If I could do anything else I would not sell it at
all."

In fact, of course, you are selling it because it is worth nothing at all and
is no longer of any use to you.

"I do the same as everyone else. So much the worse for anyone who is taken in.
I have been cheated; I try to cheat in my own turn; otherwise I would lose too
much."

Is it, my children, that if others are damning themselves, then you must needs
damn yourselves also? They are going to Hell -- must you then go along with
them? You would prefer to have a few extra pennies and go to Hell for all
eternity? Very well.

I am telling you, though, that if you have sold an animal with hidden faults,
you are obliged to compensate the buyer for the loss which these defects have
caused him; otherwise you will be damned.

"Ah, if you were in our place you would do the very same as we do."

Yes, my dear children, without any doubt I would do the very same as you do if,
as you do, I wanted to be damned. But since I want to be saved, I would do the
exact opposite of that.

 

                                                                       Contents

IF YOU KNOW HOW TO GIVE, YOU MUST KNOW HOW TO PAY BACK

                                                                               

There are plenty of people who, when they are passing through a meadow or a
turnip field or an orchard, will find no difficulty in filling their pockets
with herbs or turnips and carrying away any amount of fruit in their baskets.
Parents who see their children coming in with their hands full of these stolen
objects simply laugh at them, saying, "Oh, my goodness, what grand things!"

My dear brethren, if you now take the value of a penny, and now the value of
two pennies, you will soon have matter for a mortal sin. And after all, you can
still commit mortal sin by taking less than your intention was to take....

Sometimes it will be a shoemaker who uses poor leather or bad thread but who
charges for his work as if it were of the best quality. Or again it may be a
tailor who, under the pretext of not having received a sufficiently good price
for his work, will keep a piece of his customer's material without saying
anything about it.... Oh, dear Lord, how death will show up these thieves! ....

Here is a weaver who spoils a part of his thread rather than go to the trouble
of unravelling it. So he will use the smallest part of it and keep, without
saying anything about it, what was entrusted to him. Then there is the woman,
given some flax to spin, who will reject part of it on the pretext that it has
not been well combed. Thus she will be able to keep some for herself, and then,
by putting the thread into a damp place, she will be able to make right its
weight. She gives no consideration to the fact that perhaps the thread belongs
to a poor labourer to whom it will now be of no use because it is already
half-ruined. She will thus be the cause of innumerable bad things which he will
say against his master.

A shepherd knows quite well that he is not allowed to lead animals to pasture
in a certain meadow or woods. That will not matter a bit to him; as long as he
is not seen, this will do him very well. Another knows that he has been
forbidden to go gathering tares in a certain cornfield because it is in bloom.
He has a look around to see if anyone can see him, and then in he goes. Tell
me, my brethren, would you be quite satisfied if your neighbour did that to
you? No, certainly you would not! Very well, then, do you believe that this
....[sentence incomplete - Trans.]

Suppose we take a look at the conduct of labourers. Quite a large section of
them are thieves.... If they are made to work for an agreed price, they will
ruin half the job and they will continue until they get themselves paid. If
they are hired by the day, they will be satisfied to work well while their
employer is looking at them and after that they will give themselves over to
talking and killing time. A servant will see no reason why he or she should not
receive and treat friends well during the absence of the owners of the house,
knowing quite well that they would not allow this at all. Others will give away
large alms in order to be considered charitable people. Should they not give
these out of their own wages, which so often they squander on trifles? If this
has happened to you, do not forget that you are obliged to pay back to the
person concerned all that you gave to the poor without the knowledge or consent
of your employers. Then again, there is the one who has been entrusted by his
employer with the supervision of the staff, or of workmen, who gives out wine
and all sorts of other things to them if they ask him. Understand this clearly:
if you know how to give, you must know how to pay back....

Suppose we turn now to the matter of masters -- I know that we have no shortage
of thieves in that quarter, either. How many masters do not, in actual fact,
give as much money as they have agreed with their hired help to give? How many
are there who, when they see the end of the year approaching, will do
everything they possibly can to get their servants to leave so that they will
not have to pay them. If an animal has died despite the care of the one in
charge of it, they will keep back the price of it out of his wages, so that an
unfortunate young fellow will have toiled the whole year through and at the end
of his time will find himself with nothing at all. How many, again, have
promised a suit length and will then have it made too narrow or of bad material
or even will have the making of it put off for several years, to the point
where they have to be brought to law to make them pay up? How many of them,
when they are plowing or reaping or harvesting go beyond their own boundaries,
or even cut a young sapling from their next-door neighbour's land to make
themselves a handle for a scythe or a withe for a stook or to tie up a part of
the cart? Had I not good reason to say, my dear brethren, that if we examine
the conduct of most people we should find only thieves and cheats? ....

There are very few of them, as you can see, who do not have something on their
conscience. So, then, where are those who make restitution? I do not know any
of them....

Now, you will say, we can hope to know, roughly anyway, in what ways we can
commit wrongs and injustices. But how, and to whom, must we make restitution?

You would like to make restitution? Very well, listen to me for a moment and
you will know how to go about it. You must not be satisfied with paying back
half, or three-quarters, but all, if you possibly can; otherwise you will be
damned. There are some people who, without going into the question of the
number of the people whom they have wronged, will give some alms or have some
Masses said. And once that is done, they think they are quite safe. It is true,
alms and Masses are all very well, but they must be given with your money and
not with your neighbour's. That money was not yours; give it to its rightful
owner and then give your own in alms and Masses if you want to: you will be
doing very well....

There are those who say: "I have wronged So-and-So, but he is quite rich
enough; I know a poor person who has a much greater need of the money."

My good friend, give to this poor person from your own money, but pay back to
your neighbour whatever substance you have taken from him.

"But he will put it to a bad use."

That has nothing to do with you. Give him his due, pray for him, and sleep
well.

 

                                                                       Contents

WINE IS HIS GOD

Habitual drunkenness is not one of those sins which time and grace will
correct. To cure this sin, not an ordinary grace but a miracle of grace is
required. You ask me why drunken people are so rarely converted. This is the
reason: it is that they have neither faith, nor religion, nor pity, nor respect
for holy things. Nothing is able to touch them or to open their eyes to their
unhappy state. If you try to frighten them with death, or judgment, or the Hell
which is waiting to consume them, if you talk to them of the happiness which
God is keeping for those who love Him, the only answer you will get is a sly
little smile which means: "You think now that you are going to make me afraid,
like you do the children, but I am not one of those people who fall for that."

But look at what this means. Such a person believes that when we are dead,
everything is finished. His god is his wine and he abides by it. The wine which
he drinks to excess, the Holy Ghost warns him, is like a snake whose bite is
death.

You believe none of this now, but in Hell you will learn that there was a God
other than your stomach....

It is essential for the habitual drunkard to get out of this state in order
that he may understand the full horror of it. But, unfortunately, he has no
faith. He believes only very weakly in the truths which the Church teaches us.
It is essential for him to have recourse to prayer, but he hardly says any
prayers at all, or if he does, it will be while he is dressing or undressing,
or again, he may be satisfied to make just the Sign of the Cross, after a
fashion, as he throws himself down on his bed, like a horse in its stable. It
is essential that he should frequent the Sacraments, which are, in spite of the
contempt with which the impious regard them, the sole remedies which the mercy
of God offers us to draw us to Him. But, unfortunately, he does not even know
the dispositions which he ought to cultivate in order to receive them worthily
or even the bare essentials which he should know in order to save his soul. If
you want to question him about his state, he understands nothing about it, as
his contradictory answers show. If at the time of a Jubilee, or of a Mission,
or something like that, he wants to keep up appearances, he will be content to
tell barely the half of his sins, and, still burdened with the others, he will
approach the altar. That is to say, he will commit sacrilege; that will satisfy
him. Dear God, what a dreadful state is that of the habitual drunkard and how
hard it is to be able to leave it! The Prophet Isaias tells us that habitual
drunkards are useless as far as the doing of good on earth is concerned but
that they are very dangerous when it comes to the doing of evil. To convince
ourselves of that, my dear brethren, go into a cabaret, which St. John Climacus
calls the Devil's Shop, the school where Hell holds forth and teaches its
doctrine, the place where souls are sold, where homes are ruined, where health
deteriorates, where quarrels begin, and where murders are committed.

.... What do you learn there? You know that better than I do....

Take a look at this poor drunkard, my dear brethren. He is full of wine and his
purse is empty. He throws himself down on a bench or a table. He is amazed in
the morning to find himself still in the cabaret, when he thought that he was
at home. He takes himself off after having spent all his money, and often, in
order to be able to leave, he is forced to leave his hat or coat in pledge for
the wine he has drunk. When he arrives home, his poor wife and their children,
whom he has left without bread, and only their eyes to weep with, have to take
flight from him unless they want to be ill treated, as if they were the cause
of his spending all his money and getting his affairs into the bad state in
which they are. Ah, dear Lord, how deplorable is the state of the habitual
drunkard!

The Council of Mayence [Mainz] wisely tells us that a drunkard breaks the Ten
Commandments of God....

It is greatly to be feared that those who are gripped by this vice never cure
themselves of it! ....

Let us pray to the all-merciful God to preserve us from it....

 

                                                               ContentsContinue

                                                                               

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
