Linda Schubert

Linda Schubert

Miracles of the Heart Ministries

[flags1]

☰ Navigation

  • 0View Cart
      □ Your Cart Contents

      □ No products in the cart.

  • About Linda
  • Shop
      □ Books
      □ eBooks
      □ mp3s
      □ Teaching Guides
      □ Audio CDs
      □ Mobile Devices
      □ Monthly Special
  • Prayer Requests
  • Power Tongues Int.
  • Contact us
  • Other Resources

Miracles of the Heart Ministries is dedicated to awakening Christians to the
restorative power of God's love. Through the guidance of the Holy Spirit, Linda
Schubert's goal is to provide resources that will bring healing and hope as we
"...grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ...(2
Peter 3:18)."

  •  

    Miracle Hour

    A method of prayer that will change your life. A simple format for a daily
    hour of prayer. Provides a clear format for prayer to help you focus your
    time. Includes suggestions for specific prayers of praise, intercession and
    surrender.
  •  
    How a father's blessing can work healing, whether it is the blessing of
    your own father or of your heavenly Father.

    The Healing Power of a Father’s Blessing

  •  

    Miracle Moments

    This book is an invitation to prayer that will help us to see, know and
    experience the heart of God as He moves through His people. These are
    simple prayers to reveal a profound love.
  •  
    Miracle Man Handbook
    Whatever the needs in your life, whatever frustrates you, help is as close
    as your next heartbeat. God is waiting to release miracle power in you and
    through you.
  •  
    The Gift of Tongues…a doorway to miracles
    Have you ever felt that your native tongue was not adequate to express what
    was deep in your heart? In the gift of praying in tongues God has provided
    a way for Christians to commune with Him beyond their human ability.
  •  
    Precious Power
    The New Testament is rich with examples of the Lord welcoming, listening
    to, and empowering those who come to Him. Through the precious power of the
    Holy Spirit He continues this ministry today.
  •  
    True Confessions
    This is a book about parts of ourselves that we sometimes don't want to
    admit. And yet, as we bring them to God He opens great fountains of grace.
    Inviting God into our negative emotions and painful struggles often brings
    the deepest growth and healing in our lives.
  •  
    Rich in Mercy
    The personal testimony of Linda Schubert. You’ll grow in appreciation of
    God’s merciful love through this testimony from a well-known charismatic
    author and speaker.
  •  
    Miracle Woman Handbook
    Whatever the needs in your life, whatever frustrates you, help is as close
    as your next heartbeat. God is waiting to release miracle power in you and
    through you.
  •  
    5-Minute Miracles
    Praying for people with simplicity and power. Explains how you can pray
    simply, directly, briefly and with power for the people you meet each day,
    so they can encounter the living Christ.

Prayers

  • Couples Praying Together

    Many Christian couples do not pray together. They often don’t realize the
    power and grace of simply sitting down together, regularly, holding hands,
    and praying from their hearts about the issues of life. They will pray by
    themselves, they will occasionally say traditional prayers. Facing each
    other, praying from their hearts, makes them feel uncomfortable. So they
    make excuses. Research indicates that couples Read more →

Linda's Corner

  • Renewed Sense of Purpose

    “For I know the plans I have for you”, declares the Lord, “plans to prosper
    you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future” (Jer 29:11).
    I recently shared a message on grieving loss at my local parish. When
    preparing for the session I was reminded of a story I heard years ago about
    a little girl with serious problems with her legs. They were deeply
    scarred, and she was in continual pain. What particularly struck me about
    the Read more →

Guest Corner

  • Connections: Or What does Love have to do with It?

    I’d like to welcome Dr Moreno as a contributor to the Guest Column. I have
    had the honor of praying with him on the phone regularly, and consider him
    a good friend. He has much wisdom to share with all of us. Linda Schubert.
    “It is because God had made me fruitful in the land of my suffering.”
    Genesis 41:53 In Exodus 3:7-8, God sees the suffering of His people in
    Egypt and says, “ I have heard them Read more →

[linda]

About Linda

I want to share with you an amazing winding path that is a message of great
hope and encouragement for many. As of this writing I am 75 years old, and have
traveled the world through the popularity of my international best seller
Miracle Hour. Once in a country village in Australia a woman threw her arms
around me and said, “I feel like I know you because of Miracle Hour.” Read More
Linda Schubert © 2012. All Rights Reserved. Design by www.studio35design.com
linda@linda-schubert.com phone: 408 734 8663, fax 408 734 8661 PO Box 4034
Santa Clara CA 95056
  
