login register

  • Books
  • •
  • Authors
  • •
  • About
  • •
  • Search
  • •
  • Links

 
Bookmarks
Register or login to bookmark any paragraph of any book

Menu

  • Download PDF[s]
  • Discuss this book[s]
  • Printable View[s]
  • Fixed Width [s]
  • Share[s]

Table of Contents

  • your are here Introduction
  • How Shall We Consider Christ?
  • Is Christ God?
  • Christ As Creator
  • Is Christ a Created Being?
  • God Manifest in the Flesh
  • Important Practical Lessons
  • Christ the Lawgiver
  • The Righteousness of God
  • The Lord Our Righteousness
  • Acceptance With God
  • The Victory of Faith
  • Bond Servants and Freemen
  • Practical Illustrations of Deliverance From Bondage

Christ and His Righteousness

by

E.J. Waggoner

Introduction

In the first verse of the third chapter of Hebrews we have an exhortation which
comprehends all the injunctions given to the Christian. It is this: `Wherefore,
holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High
Priest of our profession, Christ Jesus.' To do this as the Bible enjoins, to
consider Christ continually and intelligently, just as He is, will transform
one into a perfect Christian, for `by beholding we become changed.'

Ministers of the gospel have an inspired warrant for keeping the theme, Christ,
continually before the people and directing the attention of the people to Him
alone. Paul said to the Corinthians, `I determined not to know anything among
you, save Jesus Christ, and him crucified' (1 Cor. 2:2), and there is no reason
to suppose that his preaching to the Corinthians was different in any respect
from his preaching elsewhere. Indeed, he tells us that when God revealed His
Son in him, it was that he might preach Him among the heathen (Gal. 1:15, 16),
and his joy was that to him grace had been given to `preach among the Gentiles
the unsearchable riches of Christ.' Eph. 3:8.

But the fact that the apostles made Christ the burden of all their preaching is
not our sole warrant for magnifying Him. His name is the only name under heaven
given among men whereby we can be saved. Acts 4:12. Christ Himself declared
that no man can come unto the Father but by Him. John 14:6. To Nicodemus He
said, `And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the
Son of Man be lifted up; that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but
have eternal life.' John 3:14, 15.

This `lifting up' of Jesus, while it has primary reference to His crucifixion,
embraces more than the mere historical fact; it means that Christ must be
`lifted up' by all who believe in Him, as the crucified Redeemer, whose grace
and glory are sufficient to supply the world's greatest need; it means that He
should be `lifted up' in all His exceeding loveliness and power as `God with
us,' that His Divine attractiveness may thus draw all unto Him. See John 12:32.

The exhortation to consider Jesus and also the reason therefore, are given in
Heb. 12:1-3: `Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a
cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so
easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us,
looking unto Jesus the Author and Finisher of our faith; who for the joy that
was set before Him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at
the right hand of the throne of God. For consider Him that endured such
contradiction of sinners against Himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in your
minds.' It is only by constantly and prayerfully considering Jesus as He is
revealed in the Bible that we can keep from becoming weary in well-doing and
from fainting by the way.

Again, we should consider Jesus because in Him `are hid all the treasures of
wisdom and knowledge.' Col. 2:3. Whoever lacks wisdom is directed to ask of
God, who gives to all men liberally and upbraids not, and the promise is that
it shall be given him, but the desired wisdom can be obtained only in Christ.
The wisdom which does not proceed from Christ and which does not as a
consequence lead to Him is only foolishness, for God, as the Source of all
things, is the Author of wisdom; ignorance of God is the worst sort of
foolishness (see Rom. 1:21, 22) and all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge
are hid in Christ, so that he who has only the wisdom of this world knows, in
reality, nothing. And since all power in heaven and in earth is given to
Christ, the apostle Paul declares Christ to be `the power of God and the wisdom
of God.' 1 Cor. 1:24.

There is one text, however, which briefly sums up all that Christ is to man and
gives the most comprehensive reason for considering Him. It is this: `But of
Him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom, and
righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption.' 1 Cor. 1:30. We are
ignorant, wicked lost. Christ is to us wisdom, righteousness, redemption. What
a range! From ignorance and sin to righteousness and redemption. Man's highest
aspiration or need cannot reach outside the bounds of what Christ is to us and
what He alone is to us. Sufficient reason this why the eyes of all should be
fixed upon Him.

First Previous [Introduction                           ] Next Last

Click on any paragraph to bookmark it
Cancel

Word of Truth
Home • Back to Top • Books • Authors • About • Search • Links • Contact • Forum
• (C) 2007-2010 Seed of Truth
[piwik]

