bg image(newspnt.jpg)

                        Pope Pius XII and the Holocaust
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
 If the world hates you, realize that it hated me first... Remember the word I
 spoke to you, 'No servant is greater than his master.' If they persecuted me,
                         they will also persecute you.
                                 John 15:18-20

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

In recent years, the media have accused the Catholic Church of either helping
the Nazis or being silent during the Holocaust. As an example, the January 26,
1998 issue of Time magazine on page 20 claims that the Catholic Church
apologized for "collaborating with the Nazis during World War II." Even the new
Holocaust Museum in New York unjustly criticized Pope Pius XII for being silent
during World War II. The Church has recently spoken on this topic.

The Israeli consul, Pinchas E. Lapide, in his book, Three Popes and the Jews
(New York: Hawthorn Books, Inc., 1967) critically examines Pope Pius XII.
According to his research, the Catholic Church under Pius XII was instrumental
in saving 860,000 Jews from Nazi death camps (p. 214). Could Pius have saved
more lives by speaking out more forcefully? According to Lapide, the
concentration camp prisoners did not want Pius to speak out openly (p. 247). As
one jurist from the Nuremberg Trials said on WNBC in New York (Feb. 28, 1964),
"Any words of Pius XII, directed against a madman like Hitler, would have
brought on an even worse catastrophe... [and] accelerated the massacre of Jews
and priests." (Ibid.) Yet Pius was not totally silent either. Lapide notes a
book by the Jewish historian, Jenoe Levai, entitled, The Church Did Not Keep
Silent (p. 256). He admits that everyone, including himself, could have done
more. If we condemn Pius, then justice would demand condemning everyone else.
He concludes by quoting from the Talmud that "whosoever preserves one life, it
is accounted to him by Scripture as if he had preserved a whole world." With
this he claims that Pius XII deserves a memorial forest of 860,000 trees in the
Judean hills (pp. 268-9). It should be noted that six million Jews and three
million Catholics were killed in the Holocaust.

We must remember that the Holocaust was also anti-Christian. After Hitler
revealed his true intentions, the Catholic Church opposed him. Even the famous
Albert Einstein testified to that. According to the December 23, 1940 issue of
Time magazine on page 38, Einstein said:

Being a lover of freedom, when the revolution came in Germany, I looked to the
universities to defend it, knowing that they had always boasted of their
devotion to the cause of truth; but, no, the universities immediately were
silenced. Then I looked to the great editors of the newspapers whose flaming
editorials in days gone by had proclaimed their love of freedom; but they, like
the universities, were silenced in a few short weeks...

Only the Church stood squarely across the path of Hitler's campaign for
suppressing truth. I never had any special interest in the Church before, but
now I feel a great affection and admiration because the Church alone has had
the courage and persistence to stand for intellectual truth and moral freedom.
I am forced thus to confess that what I once despised I now praise
unreservedly.

In another, similar statement, Einstein referred explicitly to the Catholic
Church (Lapide, p. 251). This is an extraordinary testimony by an agnostic
German scientist of Jewish heritage. Even though there were traitors in her
ranks, the Church still opposed the Nazi movement.

The December 23, 1940 issue of Time magazine contains an interesting article
about Christians living in Germany, both Catholic and Protestant, who opposed
and suffered under the Nazis. On page 38, it claims that by late 1940 over
200,000 Christians were prisoners in Nazi concentration camps, with some
estimates as high as 800,000. On page 40, it reports on the Archbishop of
Munich, Michael Cardinal von Faulhaber, who led the Catholic opposition in
Germany against the Nazis. In an Advent 1933 sermon, he preached: "Let us not
forget that we were saved not by German blood but by the blood of Christ!" in
response to Nazi racism. In 1934 the Cardinal "narrowly missed a Nazi bullet",
while in 1938 a Nazi mob broke the windows in his residence. Even though he was
over seventy and in poor health, he still led the Catholic German resistance
against Hitler.

Not trusting the new regime, the Vatican signed a Concordat with the Reich on
July 20, 1933 in an attempt to protect the Church's rights in Germany. But the
Nazis quickly violated its articles. In Lent 1937 Pope Pius XI issued the
encyclical "Mit brennender Sorge" (With burning sorrow) with the help of German
bishops and Cardinal Pacelli (later Pope Pius XII). It was smuggled into
Germany and read in all German Catholic churches at the same hour on Palm
Sunday 1937. It did not explicitly mention Hitler or Nazism, but it firmly
condemned the Nazi doctrines. On September 20, 1938, Pius XI told German
pilgrims that no Christian can take part in anti-Semitism, since spiritually
all Christians are Semites.

The recent slander against the Church and Pope Pius XII can be traced back to
1963 with Rolf Hochhuth's play, "The Deputy." In this play Hochhuth criticized
Pius for being silent and portrayed his silence as cold indifference. Even
though fiction, people took it as fact.

Pope Pius XII was a diplomat and not a radical preacher. He knew that he first
needed to preserve Vatican neutrality so that Vatican City could be a refuge
for war victims. The International Red Cross also remained neutral. Secondly,
he knew how powerless he was against Hitler. Mussolini could quickly shut off
electrical power to Vatican Radio during his broadcast (Lapide, p. 256).
Finally the Nazis did not tolerate any protest and responded severely. As an
example, the Catholic Archbishop of Utrecht in July 1942 protested in a
pastoral letter against the Jewish persecutions in Holland. Immediately the
Nazis rounded up as many Jews and Catholic non-Aryans as possible and deported
them to death camps, including Blessed Edith Stein (Lapide, p. 246). Pius knew
that every time he spoke out against Hitler, the Nazis could retaliate against
the prisoners. His best attack against the Nazis was quiet diplomacy and
behind-the-scenes action. According to The 1996 Grolier Multimedia Encyclopedia
(V8.01) under Pius XII, "Wishing to preserve Vatican neutrality, fearing
reprisals, and realizing his impotence to stop the Holocaust, Pius nonetheless
acted on an individual basis to save many Jews and others with church ransoms,
documents, and asylum."

The charity and work of Pope Pius XII during World War II so impressed the
Chief Rabbi of Rome, Israel Zolli, that in 1944 he was open to the grace of God
which led him into the Catholic faith. As his baptismal name, he took the same
one Pius had, Eugenio, as his own. Later Israel Eugenio Zolli wrote a book
entitled, Why I Became a Catholic.

But Pope Pius XII was not completely silent either, especially in his Christmas
messages. His 1941 and 1942 Christmas messages were both translated and
published in The New York Times (Dec. 25, 1941, p. 20 & Dec. 25, 1942, p. 10).
To prevent retaliation, he did not refer to Nazism by name, but people of that
era still understood him, including the Nazis. According to The New York Times
editorial on December 25, 1941 (Late Day edition, p. 24):

The voice of Pius XII is a lonely voice in the silence and darkness enveloping
Europe this Christmas... he is about the only ruler left on the Continent of
Europe who dares to raise his voice at all... the Pope put himself squarely
against Hitlerism... he left no doubt that the Nazi aims are also
irreconcilable with his own conception of a Christian peace.

Also The New York Times editorial on December 25, 1942 (Late Day edition, p.
16) states:

This Christmas more than ever he is a lonely voice crying out of the silence of
a continent... Pope Pius expresses as passionately as any leader on our side
the war aims of the struggle for freedom when he says that those who aim at
building a new world must fight for free choice of government and religious
order. They must refuse that the state should make of individuals a herd of
whom the state disposes as if they were lifeless things.

Both editorials recognize and highly praise Pius' words against Hitler and
totalitarianism.

Now there were traitors in the Church who were Nazis or helped Hitler. There
were Catholics who committed sins of bigotry. There were also Catholics, who,
out of fear or indifference, sinned through silence. The Church is full of
sinners for whom Christ died. We killed Jesus with our sins (Is. 53: 5-6). But
Pope Pius XII and many Catholics did not remain "silent." Could 860,000 Jewish
lives be saved by "silent" indifference? In our own day, there are people who
claim to be Catholic but promote and participate in abortion, assisted-suicide
and artificial birth control. In the next century, will the world also falsely
accuse the Church and the Pope for being silent during the "culture of death"
holocaust?

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

NIHIL OBSTAT:
Reverend John T. Folda, S.T.L.
Censor Librorum

IMPRIMATUR:
Most Reverend Fabian W. Bruskewitz, D.D., S.T.D.
Bishop of Lincoln

May 27, 1998

The NIHIL OBSTAT and IMPRIMATUR are official declarations that a book or a
pamphlet is free from doctrinal or moral error. No implication is contained
therein that those who have granted the NIHIL OBSTAT and IMPRIMATUR agree with
the contents, opinions, or statements expressed.

                    ______________________________________

                           A Catholic Response, Inc.
                                P.O. Box 84272
                            Lincoln, NE 68501-4272
                    ______________________________________

Return to Main Page
