[index_grlabel3]
[index_grlabel1]
[index_grlabel4]
[index_grlabel2]

Download the updated version The Blessed Hope - What You Can Know The updated
version is ready for printing on your printer. A pdf is available Here


Gods virtuous woman is now available for your Kindle. in the US and in the UK
Our most important page
real audio
Links
Another Gospel
Bearing fruit
The Blessed Hope
Beware!
Body,Soul and Spirit
Calvary
Compromise
Battle of the tempest
Devil Possession
Difficult Scriptures
Discouraged
Divorced?
False Doctrine
God's virtuous Woman
grief
Heaven or Hell
Mystery Babylon Identified
Mother Nature My Foot!
Christian music?
Others May
Once Saved Always Saved!
Partnerships
Poetry
Political Activism
Sheol Just a grave?
Skullduggery
The spirit of this age
The gospel of self
Starwars surprise
Strange Scriptures
Thanksgiving
What to do with the Bible
Why I am a baptist
Why I believe
What would Jesus do?
Why King James?
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
[index_filledrrect2]
All material written by David Rowley unless otherwise noted and is copyrighted
© Material may be copied without permission for personal use. For any other
use, including using on your web site or distribution by any other means,
reference to the source must be included. Feel free to make links to this site
or any part of it.
Mathematical Proof that the Bible is 100 % true. Click here
Read "Science Speaks, Chapters two and three.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Can a divorced man pastor scripturaly? You might be surpised!
My Blog
[index_filledrrect4]
It is clear that in these last days many of you will give heed to doctrines of
devils. Satan, who appears as an angel of light, and his ministers as ministers
of righteousness, (2 Corinthians 11:14, 15) will seduce you. Sound Bible truth
has been replaced with emotional substitutes. Entertainment has replaced
searching the scriptures, and folks just don't consider the possibility of
being deceived. II Thessalonians 2:3 tells us that before the return of Christ,
there will be a major defection from truth in the Body of Christ. Since Christ
stated in John 8: 32 "And ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you
free", you can be sure Satan will do all he can to keep you in spiritual
bondage. We desire to be a help to you precious saints of God, who because of
the myriad of false teachings and doctrines being taught in today's churches
and on so called Christian television, find you lives empty, you children
rebels, your families crumbling, and your knowledge of God and His word
woefully lacking. Your heart longs for a deeper fellowship with God, but the
longing goes unrealized. God's word states:
   
            My people are destroyed for lack  of knowledge. Hosea 4:6

Many, especially young people, are at the point of suicide. We don't  claim to
be right about everything, but we'll do our best to "tell it like it is". Check
us out with a Bible in your hand. I'm pastor David Rowley, and I hope the pages
will challenge you and be a blessing.


