                      HOMEPAGE    ADDRESSES    CONTENTS    CONTACT    ABOUT US 
                                                                        [ROloS]

* ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ * ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                      [225x70]   Argentina - (South America)
                                 (Print)
                              
                     WORLDWIDE                              [6]
                              
                        AFRICA   Information about Argentina
                          ASIA
                        EUROPE          Capital Buenos Aires
                 NORTH AMERICA
                 SOUTH AMERICA             Area 2780400 square kilometres
                       OCEANIA
                           [t]       Population 35677000

                            •         Religions nominally Roman Catholic 92% (less than 20%
                                                practicing), Protestant 2%, Jewish 2%,
                                                other 4%

   [deuA] [engA] [espA] [fraA]    Christian (%) 94.00

                                 Protestant (%) 2.00

                                   Reformed (%)

                                 The Argentine Republic forms, together with Chile and
                                 Uruguay, the southern cone of Latin America. One third of
                                 its population lives in the capital — Buenos Aires and
                                 Greater Buenos Aires. Due to the length of the country,
                                 the climate varies from semi-tropical to polar, and due to
                                 its width the topography varies from coastalto mountainous
                                 zones in the Andes. Historically, the country was
                                 colonized by the Spaniards and gained independence in
                                 1816. The majority religion has been Roman Catholicism.
                                 The first Protestant groups to arrive were Presb from
                                 Scotland and Angl (1825-1829); they were authorized to
                                 work in English only. The Meth church made its appearance
                                 in 1836, followed in 1881 by the Bapt. The first
                                 immigrants, who later established the Argentine Reformed
                                 Church, arrived from Holland in 1886. By now, most of the
                                 historical churches have celebrated the 100th anniversary
                                 of their presence in the country. The historical churches
                                 also include the Waldensian Church in Argentina and
                                 Uruguay (cf. Uruguay), the Evangelical Church of the River
                                 Plate in Argentina, Uruguay, and Paraguay, the Disciples
                                 of Christ, and the United Lutheran Church. In the last few
                                 years the country has seen the emergence of a great number
                                 of Pentecostal churches, some open for ecumenical
                                 contacts, others based on a strong personal and individual
                                 ministry. All religious communities have to register with
                                 the Foreign Ministry.
                                 For many years now, most of these churches have united in
                                 cooperative efforts. More than 25 denominations, including
                                 the Salvation Army and some Pentecostal churches, are
                                 members of the Argentine Federation of Protestant
                                 Churches; nine churches share the Faculty of Theology
                                 (ISEDET) for the training of their ministers. A few years
                                 ago the Waldensian, United Lutheran, Reformed, and
                                 Evangelical Church of the River Plate agreed on the mutual
                                 recognition of membership and ministry on the basis of the
                                 Leuenberg Concord. The Reformed and Waldensian Church have
                                 gradually begun to share their work. They jointly issue
                                 the magazine Dialogo and together run a student hostel in
                                 Buenos Aires. In 1994 the Synods celebrated a joint
                                 Assembly.

                                 Churches

                                   • Iglesia Cristiana Evangélica Reformada Húngara
                                     Hungarian Christian Evangelical Reformed Church
                                   • Iglesia Evangelica Congregacional Argentina
                                     Evangelical Congregational Church IECA
                                   • Iglesia Evangelica del Rio de la Plata
                                     Evangelical Church of the River Plate
                                   • Iglesia Evangelica Presbiteriana Coreana
                                     Korean Evangelical Presbyterian Church
                                   • Iglesia Evangelica Suiza en la Argentina
                                     Swiss Evangelical Church IES
                                   • Iglesia Evangélica Valdense en Argentina
                                     Evangelical Waldensian Church of Argentina
                                   • Iglesia presbiteriana Argentina
                                     Argentine Presbyterian Church
                                   • Iglesia Presbiteriana Central de Buenos Aires
                                     Central Presbyterian Church of Buenos Aires
                                   • Iglesia Presbiteriana Coreana Che Il
                                     Che Il Korean Presbyterian Church
                                   • Iglesia Presbiteriana Mui (Taiwanesa)
                                     Mui Presbyterian Church
                                   • Iglesia Presbiteriana San Andrés en Olivos
                                     St. Andrew's Presbyterian Church
                                   • Iglesia Presbiteriana Taiwan (Sin-Heng)
                                     Taiwanese Presbyterian Church (Sin-Heng)
                                   • Iglesias Reformadas en la Argentina
                                     Reformed Churches in Argentina I.R.A.

                                   • Biblical Institute of Buenos Aires
                                     Instituto Biblico Buenos Aires
                                   • Instituto Universitario ISEDET
                                     University Institute ISEDET ISEDET
                                   • Theological Institute of the Congregational
                                     Evangelical Church in Argentina
                                     Instituto de Teología de la Iglesia Evangélica
                                     Congregacional Argentina

                                  

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━   NEWS   WORLDWIDE   WARC   LIBRARY   EDUCATION   ENCYCLOPAEDIA 
                                                               LINKS 

                                                            Copyright (C) 2002 reformed online
                                                   Stiftung Johannes a Lasco Bibliothek Grosse
                                                                                  Kirche Emden
                                                         Kirchstrasse 22, 26721 Emden, Germany
                                              Telefon: 04921 - 9150 - 0, Telefax: 04921 - 9150
                                                                                          - 50
                                         nach       Internet: http://www.reformiert-online.net nach
                                         oben                Email: fasse@reformiert-online.de oben
                                              [transparent]                                     
